How many roadies does it take to change a lightbulb? TWO! TWO! TWO! TWO!
how many beans does it take to change a lightbulb — idk how many
Q. How many Scientologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. What SP told you to change the lightbulb? Report to Ethics immediately.
Agreed, since we are not n the subject. How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question, feminists can’t change anything.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. But the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? One - when they've figured out what 'lightbulb' actually means.
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The risks of darkness have been vastly exaggerated.
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? It takes 17 million to remove it, but then they realise none of them have a replacement bulb.
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb ? I wouldn't bother.... Give it ere.
On the lighter side... How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One... or two? #onthelighterside #reddeer #coffeenews
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
mmm p sure it's how many slovenian dogs does it take to change a lightbulb
Bad Star Wars joke of the day: Q: How many Sith Lords does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Always two there are, a Master and an Apprentice!
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #pun #dadjoke #funny
The Empire Strikes Back, keep Mark Hamill but...recast Yoda with Fozzie Bear and bad jokes instead of Zen riddles. “How many Jedi does it take to change a lightbulb? Two! One to do it and one to not do! Wakka wakka!”
And while we’re at it, how many neurologists does it take to change a lightbulb?
VogaCloset…..How many Conservative economists does it take to change a lightbulb? ... None. The invisible hand does it. coupon code : 86T
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Daily joke: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
How many living dead girls does it take to change a lightbulb
@RantyHighwayman How many Jewish religious leaders does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
How many Calvinists does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but the lightbulb isn’t going to change itself!
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
Q: How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Margaret Thatcher is dead. Good.
How many Operatic Tenors does it take to change a lightbulb? 58: 40 to sing about how much they loved the old one, 4 to actually change the bulb, 4 to kick the stool away, so the others cracked the bulb when it became too high for them, and 10 to ask why they werent asked first!
How many nice guys does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just compliment the bulb and then get pissed that it won’t screw.
How Many Teenagers Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb? Two. One to change it, and another one to change it back again.
How many Gonstead Chiropractors does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because we don’t use rotation
How many government ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? Some. #schoolsreopeninguk
How many chiropractors does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it takes 7 sessions.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many SAGE members does it take to change a lightbulb? A. One to take it out and the rest to put the same bulb back, thinking it will work if they just screw it in harder this time
“How many Harrogate Councillor’s does it take to change a lightbulb?” “Change? CHANGE? Why does anything need to change??” Drop a comment of support through, it’s a numbers game when they get reported at Committee. It’s about time this old guard were stood up to
How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, everybody knows they can’t change anything.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? I’ll let you know when a good cop changes anything
At the end of the day Rebecca, somebody has to want to improve and change for THEMSELVES 1st, not anybody else. Ya know the old comedian's Psychologist's joke. How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? "Only one, but the light bulb's gotta want to change"
how many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb
Q. How many SAGE members does it take to change a lightbulb? A. One to take it out and the rest to put the same bulb back, thinking it will work if they just screw it in harder this time
Regardless of ones political views, IMO the NSW on the ground health workers are doing a tremendous job in very tough circumstances. Anyway, so how many Covidiots does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question. Covidiots can’t change anything.
how many tesla owners does it take to change a lightbulb
Is this one of those how many xxx does it take to change a lightbulb moments.
How many Hannahs does it take to change a lightbulb? 1, thank you very much!
Brenda’s friend: How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Angel and I:
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trumps tells them that its fixed and they all just sit in the dark and applaud!
Next week in the confused world of Lee Hurst: How many MEPs does it take to change a lightbulb? Hitler!
How many victors does it take to change a lightbulb
How many witches does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. They change them into frogs. https://punsandoneliners.com/randomness/halloween-jokes/… #HalloweenJokes #Jokes #Humour #Halloween
You are a traitor! How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many atheists does it take to change a lightbulb ? None , it will change itself but it takes a really really really looooong time
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb? Answers on a postcard.... #cats #CatsOfTwitter #CatsOfChristmas #tuesdayvibe
Joseph Massad and "The Ugly Palestinian" http://elderofziyon.blogspot.com/2020/12/joseph-massad-and-ugly-palestinian.html#.X-sgMrytOuE.twitter… how many Palestinians does it take to change a lightbulb? one: he holds it up and the whole world revolves around him.
How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many ninjas does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many men’s rights activists does it take to change a lightbulb? Not all of them
How many anarchists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Envy or jealousy? Somedays it reminds me of the joke about how many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? Eleven. One to change the bulb and ten to stand there and say "I would have done it better."
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Pittsburgh Steelers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just talk about how good the last six were! Is it a coincidence they play in Heinz Field? Or is it because just can't Ketchup! Back at ya, my friend!
How many SEO experts does it take to change a lightbulb, light bulb, bulb, lamp, light, switch, lighting...? #SEO #business
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
To be fair, long before the Internet was the joke: How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to change it and the rest to say how much better they could have done it. I play music to AVOID sporting competitions
How many Alligators and Dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? December 28, 2020 #ColoringWithBanjoAndPip #forkids #coloring #coloringsheet #coloringbook
How many Alligators and Dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? December 28, 2020 #ColoringWithBanjoAndPip #forkids #coloring #coloringsheet #coloringbook
How many country singers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to do it and one to sing a song about all the good times he had with the old light bulb.
How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? 10. 1 to change it and 9 to say “I could have done better.”
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
“How many marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The lightbulb contains the seed of its own revolution.”
“How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him.”
❝ How about a joke? It'll lighten up the mood. How many counselors does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it has to want to change. ❞
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb?? It doesn’t matter, the lightbulb has to want to change. still cracks me up every time. But psychologists aren’t really funny. We’ve only got this 1 joke.
I moved to Austin in 99. The joke back then was how many Austinites does it take to change a lightbulb? 8, one to replace the bulb and 7 more to stand around telling stories about how much better the old lightbulb was.
How many metalheads does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the rest like to stand around bit@#$%^ about how much cooler the old one was. X3 (I haven't known you that long but yeah I thought you were pretty approachable imo)
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Agree. How many raiders fans does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t. They talk about how good the old one was.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
All this, strictly for additional contributions to be used by Trump for whatever he wishes. How many of the base does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: ZERO. Trump claims he changed it, as only he can, and the base cheers in the dark.
How many snowman does it take to change a lightbulb? None they have no arms
Mina: How many does it take to change a lightbulb? Dahyun: Oh! I love hearing a new joke! I don’t know... How many? Mina: This isn’t a joke, we’ve been sitting in the dark for two hours #Mihyun
There’s an old joke I heard; How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One will actually do it, and four will talk about how it could’ve been done better.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None.Its not the lightbulb that needs changing
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? only one, but it has to want to change.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
Asked Alexa to tell me a dark joke out of curiosity(expecting a robot joke) instead she asked ‘How many Cannibals does it take to change a lightbulb’ I said I didn’t know ‘I don’t know either but it’s not a good idea to be in a dark room with a cannibal’ IVE NEVER BEEN MORE FRIGH
How many UNC freshmen does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That class isn’t available until sophomore year.
How many @Angry_Polak’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to tell you that Mike Postle cheated on StonesLivePoker.
how many gecs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Scotsmen: 1 Irishmen: 13. 1 to hold the lightbulb & 12 to drink until the room spins. Englishmen: No new lightbulbs are available as after Brexit we've adopted our own superior 0.1 millifurlong screw threat & nobody makes it
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Also, how many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? None...they use gaslight
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #pun #dadjoke #funny
How many MP's does it take to change a Lightbulb? None, because they like keeping us all in the DARK!
How many general practitioners does it take to change a lightbulb? I need to refer you to a specialist...,
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the home anyway.
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Trump says the lights work and they all cheer in the dark! #crybabyTrump #TrumpIsACompleteFailure #ByeByeTrump #biden2020
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many subs does it take to change a lightbulb? Pretty stupid lol ur only for ur money Findom
How many rockabilly guys does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
Q. How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Whats a lightbulb? What’s wrong with a candle?
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many remainers does it take to change a lightbulb? No one fucking cares! They can bitch and moan in the dark!
Prime rib roast for today with all the dressings. So exciting. By the way, how many miners does it take to change a lightbulb? A million - One to do it and 999,999 to verify that he did.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many existentialists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to observe how the lightbulb symbolizes an incandescent beacon of subjectivity in a netherworld of cosmic nothingness.
How many me does it take to change a lightbulb? 1, 1 to change the light bulb and 1 to post about it on twitter
How many train engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? https://i.redd.it/6iyv2u3zc8761.jpg…
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Source: https://reddit.com/r/ProgrammerHumor/comments/kjq55d/how_many_programmers_does_it_take_to_change_a/…
How many TPLF uncles does it take to change a lightbulb Wrong or right answers
how many pediatricians does it take to change a lightbulb....
How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? -- Who cares? They never get the house anyway. #Joke It's a joke! Geeze
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
Re: Gerhard informed me of the cruel discrimination going on here in California & the wicked joke, How many Poles does it take to change a lightbulb? That’s referring to the Catholic Church Vatican taking over Poland & the People converted to Communist Catholic (Clown Ministries)
Leila: How many mafiosos does it take to change a lightbulb? Akuza: Oh! I love hearing new jokes! I don’t know... how many? Leila: This isn’t a joke, we’ve been sitting in the dark for hours
How many comedians does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know but apparently it takes a lot of them to get Congress to do fucking anything these days. @jimmy_dore #ForceTheVote #suckmydickandchokeonitIyieldmytimefuckyou
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fore. @ Staroye Allagulovo, Mordoviya, Russia https://instagram.com/p/CJMBm_NlU5K/?igshid=czi3whxm45vx…
How many remoaners does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they would rather hold a vote to leave the same broken one in place
Q ) How many Steelers fan does it take to change a lightbulb? A ) four. One to change the light bulb and three to talk about how great the lightbulb used to be
Completely agree, also reminds me of the old joke; How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? 1,000 1 to change the lightbulb and 999 to stand around talking about how they could have done it better.
How many economists does it take to change a lightbulb? "What lightbulb?"
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, we have hired help for that. No, I don’t know their first name. They are happy to answer to “Boy”
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
I heard it this way: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Ah! The answer to the joke "How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?"
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But you need to live two years in the dark. Then two psychologists have to make sure that the lightbulb really wants to change!
How many Teamsters does it take to change a lightbulb? 7. ....its in the contract! (Alt answer: 7....you got a fookin problem with that?)
How many MAGAts does it take to change a lightbulb? ZERO. Trump claims he fixed it and they all applaud in the dark. #Cult45
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many TW does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't be silly, that's a man's job you transphobe!
How many does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
how many randys does it take to change a lightbulb? 0 bc he broke the bulb
how many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
Is this one of those “how many morons does it take to change a lightbulb?” questions?
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven
Sorry to see her go, I thought she did a great job on the briefings. Unfortunately, this situation reminds me of a joke. How many people does it take to change a lightbulb or winterize a house?
My state's allocation got cut again, oh mighty-miracle-worker. 2 weeks of shipments, 2 weeks of cuts. Q:How many days left in TrumpSNAFU Administration? A:"Too many." Q:"How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A:"Sorry, he forgot to buy any."
#100FREEiPhone12 @LewLater How many psycopaths does it take to change a lightbulb
#100FREEiPhone12 How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
tauremornalome: i kno they don’t have lightbulbs in fantasy ancient china but if they had, wwx and jc would make sure the most popular lightbulb joke in yunmeng is “how many jin cultivators does it take to change a lightbulb? just jin zixuan:...
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan.
“How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one—but the bulb has to want to change.”
How many @Cyrup_s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many SJW’s does it take to change a lightbulb? As a straight white man no one owes me an explanation.
How many SJW's does it take to change a lightbulb? You're a bigot if you think lightbulbs need to change. Light is a social construct rooted in hundreds of years of systemic oppression of lightbulbs by the decadant western bourgeoisie. #BeautifulAtAnyShade
Q: How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They only use gaslight.
Me after telling my routinely “how many Hispanics does it take to change a lightbulb” joke
How many SJWs does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 but it will take 2500 different committees and millions of people to vote on who the light bulb changer will be. @ksemamajama
How many SJWs does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to do emotional labor.
How many SJWs does it take to change a lightbulb? SJW's can't afford lightbulbs. They can barely afford to pay rent on a 2-bedroom with 5 roommates and still buy cat food and blue hair dye.
How many SJWs does it take to change a lightbulb? THAT’S RACIST!
How many SJWs does it take to change a lightbulb? 13. One to change the lightbulb and twelve for the diversity committee.
How many BNP members does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The BNP can’t change anything.
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
How many quantum physicists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change it and one not to change it.
How many Jehovah's Witnesses does it take to change a lightbulb? Two - but then the lighbulb must go out and change two more.
How many professors does it take to change a lightbulb? One But you gave to find them first...
how many gamers does it take to change a lightbulb. none they use rgb instead
Q. How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Two. One to screw it in most of the way and another to give it a surprise twist at the end. #jokes #amwriting #writerslife
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
George Harrison on the group's dynamic: Q: How many Beatles does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Four.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to WANT to change.
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 2 1 2 1 2 3 1 2
How many members of MCC* does it take to change a lightbulb? Change? CHANGE??? * other stereotypically conservative groups are availabe
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Is this the version of how many squirrels does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Germans are very efficient and have no sense of humour.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Notre Dame alums does it take to change a lightbulb? 101. One to change the lightbulb and 100 to talk about how great it was for years and years afterward.
Her sister chose the spicy joke like me and she got the following one, "How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they all try to beat the room for being black." Even in comedy, we can all agree that cops suck
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes, Baby!
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb must want to change. Psychopaths are #WithoutConscience. They are the definition of evil. ~Cleckley, Hare, Babiak, & Kiehl
How many Jewish mothers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to blame Brexit, one to complain about how difficult changing a lightbulb is under lockdown, and one to cancel Christmas. #vss365 #change
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many nimrods does it take to change a lightbulb? #honktwtselfieday (super late but rts appreciated !!!! :D )
@adhd Q: How many adhds does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That doesn't work for me.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #pun #dadjoke #funny
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just sit in the dark and bitch about it.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, But the lightbulb has to really want to change. That's an old joke, just to get your attention and smile, Now seriously think about it do you really want to change? or is it too convenient to be in the comfort zone?
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb. Apparently it’s the same amount of politicians needed to rip democracy from whole nation. 1.
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan
How many white people does it take to change a lightbulb? A hundred because they are so fragile.
It's like the old joke, How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the lightbulb has to want to change itself. My family experience has taught me, when someone is committed to a belief they will deny reality to fool themselves.
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s not dark and they applaud.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
My favourite lightbulb joke: Q: How many Militant Tendency supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Socialism
How many @realDonaldTrump ‘s does it take to change a lightbulb? “0” because it’s a hoax! Fake News. Lights are Garbage. Never met the guy. #ByeByeTrump Byeee!
"How many Labour Party members does it take to change a lightbulb?" Fifteen. One to change the bulb and fourteen to suspend any other members who dare to discuss how much brighter the old one was.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Feminists can’t change anything.
Joke time! How many mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan @MilyhyaAsli
@RantyHighwayman How many statisticians does it take to change a lightbulb?
My first Woke joke: How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? Define woman. *nailed it*
“How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One. The lightbulb has to wanna change.”
How many humans does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends where is this lightbulb. #HumansAreAJoke #AIHumor
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many tech-priests does it take to change a lightbulb https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=pMC0aJnjQhc… #Warhammer40k #lightbulbjoke #joke
How many Sonic character roleplayers does it take to change a lightbulb? One to hold the bulb, and the world will revolve around them
Also, how many Space Professionals does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many titans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sociologists does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb is fine — the system has to change. @ Winifouror https://instagram.com/p/CI9HAKRl2z1/?igshid=1o528mtjr02fc…
28! on the week that @gaelicplayers and @WomensGPA joined forces great to see the gender balance in that backroom team how many Dubs does it take to change a lightbulb? 1, and 27 others to wear the tracksuits and turn on the switch. @JuneFardey @aoifefitz7 @DubGAAOfficial
how many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they will arrest the lightbulb for being broke and shoot the room for being black heard this joke from a video i watched a few days ago lmfao
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Time for another game of guess the question (sorry, not listening tonight) 1. Why does Santa like gardening? 2. What happened when Santa was up in court? 3. How many Santas does it take to change a lightbulb?
?- How many prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? ..... False
how many porks does it take to change a lightbulb
Ergo: How many cambs PhDs does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but first they have to mix the dud with the good ones... Postdocs repeat till it works
@RantyHighwayman How many Nicholas Maduros does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Cambridge PhDs does it take to change a lightbulb?
@RantyHighwayman I just did this so it's topical: How many women does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many folklorists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. I’ll sing you 12, O
Should he hang the map above, or below light switch? Or pay electrician to move the light switch?How many (cranky) pundits does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just start beating the room because it's black
Q. How many museum employees does it take to change a lightbulb? A. More than you think - 18 classic cars have to be moved first! : Check out our time-lapse video taken during lockdown 2.0. OPEN TODAY : http://ow.ly/Tapi50CP7cY #motormuseum #classiccars #lakedistrict
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb ?? They're all too Fuking stupid to know they're in the dark !!!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many nein does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many members of the GOP does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They’re all “a bunch of fuckers”
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He tells them it’s changed and they clap in the dark.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many miners does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Spanish men does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan
How many Showgirls does it take to change a lightbulb? We have no idea but our Showgirls are happy to demonstrate for you when you here here! . . . #midnightexpresssmithville #party #nightlife #barscene #wow #hot #workout #instadaily #selfie #girlswithtattoos
How many reindeer does it take to change a lightbulb? Eight. Seven to hold Rudolph down and one to change the lightbulb.
How many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb..? Apparently only 1
how many protestors does it take to change a lightbulb? however many will wait 6 months for the county service department to get around to it
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says its been changed and they stand there applauding in the dark.
Here’s one : How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb ? They don’t . They just beat the room for being black.
Is this likely to cause a 'how many rockabilly's does it take to change a lightbulb??' type-situation..?
Q: How many Montreal Canadians fans does it take to change a lightbulb. A: 10, 1 to change the light bulb and 9 to stand around and talk about how great the old lightbulb was.
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb was not changed. Shareholders turned off the light and through a debt for equity swap we got back 20% of our illumination. That’s not a popular thing to say, but it’s the facts.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s done and they all cheer in darkness.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many Qtards does it take to change a lightbulb lol.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb just burned out; this is not the time to discuss it. Same with he Election the Bulb just Burned right out.
How many Japan Today posters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The lightbulb has to WANT to change. Yerp, that’s all the wisdom I have today
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb. Just one, but he has to want to change.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but ... Toucan.
George Harrison's Beatles Joke https://youtu.be/42udXDE36-0 via @YouTube How Many #Beatles does it take to change a Lightbulb?
How many niggas does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q: How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Fuck the Tories.
Q: How many snowmen does it take to change a lightbulb? A: They can't change a lightbulb, they're just snow shaped into the form of what could nominally be called humanoid, and consequently they have no means of automation or fine motor controls needed to perform such a task.
Q: How many woke millennials does it take to change a lightbulb? A:Just one. They get on a chair, hold it in place, and the world revolves around them.
Joke of the day: How many GNU/Linux users does it take to change a lightbulb? https://gnu.org/fun/jokes/users-lightbulb.html…
Q: How many dead hookers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Must be more than 8 because the light in the basement is still out.
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? As a matter of fact it takes the entire world, because many hands make light work.
How many paypigs does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question, they are all too busy groveling at my feet to change it! •findom findom queen paypig•
Just hope you didn't marry a Seminole. Q. How many FSU freshman does it take to change a lightbulb?
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many podcasts does it take to change a lightbulb? Shoot, Roman Mars has an episode about this, hold on...was it a 2018 episode? I think I was in Spain when I listened to it so it was probably 2018....
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . None, they just beat the room for being black.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The lightbulb has to want to change.
How many anarcho emos does it take to change a lightbulb? None they just sit in the dark and cry over energy subsidies.
How many Overwatch players does it take to change a lightbulb? -One to complain that nobody is screwing it in -One to brag about how many lightbulbs they have screwed in -One to dance around the light without helping -Torbjorn trying but unable to reach the bulb -One who does it
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the house anyway.
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
for the star wars fans: how many storm troopers does it take to change a lightbulb? none because they are all on the dark side
What is How many hammers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat the room for being black.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many globalists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They get the goyim to do it
How many globalists does it take to change a lightbulb? None!!! They get the goylim to do it
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Freudian psychoanalysts does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change the bulb, the other to hold the penis, mother, ladder!
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #pun #dadjoke #funny
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? I wouldn't know I purchased the solar 40w eco saver and it has never let me down. All for one great price at £7.37. Best purchase of my life except for my gold fish Jerry, named after my dead son.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? £253m in an untendered contract awarded to a ‘family-run’ investment company owned via Mauritius by a guy who went to Balliol College and read PPE (don’t titter, missus) in the 1980s. You know. Boris’s old college. Bum tish.
just went to chipotlé & there was a long ass line. the best way i can put it is how many humans does it take to change a lightbulb? hilarious how i am the only one who OCD knows exactly what he wants, lmao.
And how many influencers does it take to change a lightbulb?
I say, I say, I say, how many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? One, because they're not burdened down by Labour's health and safety gone mad culture. Eh? Health and safety, eh?
How many does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know. Only one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change. It's the same with therapy. Proper therapists create a safe space, where exploration takes place. It's that simple. Emphasis on proper.
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
“How many BBC producers does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All they have to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around them.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
Q: How many jazz musicians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: **** the changes!
I have a joke, How many tech enthusiasts does it take to change a lightbulb?
This sounds like the opening of a lightbulb joke Ok guys, tell me How many incels does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Spaniards and Welshmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? a: none people don't like to be branded as racist
"How bad does a Tory government have to be until people wake up" is the new "How many xxx's does it take to change a lightbulb?' Massive death toll - Tory "yeh - so?" PPE corruption - Tory "yeh - so?" Crash economy - Tory "yeh - so?" KFC or McD run out... meltdown!!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many lifeguards does it take to change a lightbulb? Genuine question, it’s dark in here and I think I might drown.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
2024: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? What's a lightbulb?
Q: How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They only use gaslight.
How many pollocks does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows we lost count after 23.
how many vminies does it take to change a lightbulb? none, we can't do it because we're too busy refreshing vlive naively with tears streaming down our cheeks
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How Many Cabinet Members Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb? 10 9 To Fill In The Paper Work And 1 To Blame Europe.
@GlosCC @klarachelt how many tweets does it take to change a lightbulb...? Still not fixed, leaving an alley in the dark and pedestrians/cyclists less visible to passing traffic while waiting at the pedestrian crossing,an important visual cue to the lights changing. #slowdown
How many grammar nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They would replace the lightbulb.
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . None. They only *talk* about change.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many babies does it take to change a lightbulb? More than eight because my basement is still dark.
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? ... .... ... None..Donny aka Dear Leader says it's already been changed and they stand there applauding in the dark saying it's the BEST LIGHTBULB EVER
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All Trump has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q: How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Twelve. One to underpay an over-educated, gig-economy person to change the lightbulb, and eleven to sit around and complain how much better the old one was.
Question: How many morons does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: this video.
How many tiny pee pees does it take to change a lightbulb?
~ I stole this joke from somewhere, I forgot where though. How many SMT fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change the lightbulb and another to complain that it’s not dark enough.
guys, how many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazillion LMAOO
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, first the lightbulb must want to be changed...
Wouldn't help. Reminds me of the classic therapy joke. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
Q: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just the one. But he has to do it before the old one becomes cool.
Q. How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Not our problem, it is a hardware issue.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None it is a hardware issue.
And this number you think is closest to accurate came out of...your ass? Same as all the made up accusations of fraud with 0 evidence? How many trumptards does it take to change a lightbulb? 0. Trump will say it's changed without doing it, and they all will cheer in the dark.
So a priest and a rabbi walk into a bar and he says how many monkeys does it take to change a lightbulb
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb must really want to change.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Nonono, it’s how many Boogers does it take to change a lightbulb. Not how many light bulbs can Booger change!
i think this falls under the 'how many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?' only here it's how many wins does it take to win a state?
How many slapheads does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many WSDOT workers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Leave Voters does it take to change a lightbulb? One to remove the bulb and 17,410,741 to sit in the dark and tell everyone else to get over themselves. (h/t @TheNewEuropean)
Yeah, there's an old joke that goes: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: 3, 1to climb the ladder, 1 to hold the ladder and 1 to hold the EU rule book!
@TalkRoberto Afternoon guys hope you’re good and looking forward to the weekend How many Prime Minister’s does it take to change a lightbulb none because They like to keep people in the dark Should have expected a no Deal he can’t even brush his own hair
How many Star Wars fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn’t matter, one will change it and every one else will stand around and complain about it.
Begs the question, How many airline captains does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fore
Q: How many Trumpies does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump just announces that the lightbulb is fixed, and they all applaud in the dark.
How many VT students does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but they get 4 credits
How many Sith lords does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They prefer the dark side.
Q: How many fascists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb......Fore!!!
And you can now answer the question “How many DBAs does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many O Lineman does it take to change a lightbulb? And go ...
How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end. #FridayFunDay
How many Engie vans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
how many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? none. trump just says it’s been changed and they stand there applauding in the dark.
How many photographers does it take to change a lightbulb? #fridayfunny #joke
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb: none Trump just says he fixed it and they sit around in the dark blaming the Democrats
Q: How many MAGA republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 106, to sue after the lightbulb has already been changed by a Democrat.
How many does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republican politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? Most of them are busy instead trying to change the outcome of a lawful election, and anyway they'd prefer to keep us in the dark while they screw our country.
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? 106 House Republicans But nothing actually happens because they’re attempting to change a “dim bulb” that will be replaced on Jan. 20.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
This reminds me of my favorite joke about the profession. "How many librarians does it take to change a lightbulb?" "CHANGE?!?!?" *librarian runs through wall like a cartoon character*
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fore.
How to think not what to think, followed by a list of things that you will teach children to think. How many of you does it take to change a lightbulb by the way?
Hey, @MattBombHead how many armourers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
This reminds me of the old joke, "How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? -- 20. 1 to change it and 19 to bitch about how they would have done it better." :)
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb at Microsoft? This supercedes the standard response which was getting old... https://gnu.org/fun/jokes/users-lightbulb.html…
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He just tells them it’s been fixed and they sit in the dark and applaud.
How many protestants does it take to change a lightbulb? None cos they all live in eternal darkness! Old Catholic school joke.
How many martins does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dead babies does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but I can tell you the answer definitely isn’t one
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb..? None. We don’t address hardware issues!
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t matter, so long as the light bulb wants to change.
How many DSA members and how many progressive stacks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
Very sad to see so many fall for tRumps con. This joke will help make sense of it! How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
I thought he was going to say, "how many Chinese Communist spies does it take to change a lightbulb?" My answer would be, none- you're having a paranoid delusion, Rudy!
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s changed and they stand there applauding in the dark.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many greedpublicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just declare darkness the new standard.
real adult question is: how are you supposed to see how to change the lightbulb if the lightbulb is burnt out? (or better question: how many dumb Shelbi’s does it take to change a lightbulb after an 11hr work day?)
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they will applaud Trump in the dark while he says all the lights are on￼
How many crypto traders does it take to change a lightbulb, scott?
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many epidemiologists does it take to change a lightbulb? (R1)
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it's done, and they all cheer in the dark.
How many bigots does it take to change a lightbulb ? Genuine question, I’d really like to know.
how many music twt accounts does it take to change a lightbulb? none they can’t handle change
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many Chinese Spies does it take to change a lightbulb in Eric Swalwells office? @RepSwalwell @ericswalwell #EricSpywell #Traitors
How many roadies does it take to change a lightbulb? a) 1 b) 2 c) 1 d) 2 e) 2 f) 2
How many original Atari Jaguar owners does it take a change a lightbulb? Both of them. How many retro collector Atari Jaguar owners does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They clearly have enough money to employ someone else to do it for them.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
#ujsconf2020 Q: How many Jewish grandmothers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, we'll suffer in the dark
How many psychologist does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has really want to change
How many Corbynites does it take to change a lightbulb? All lightbulbs matter. (This is after they’d smashed the lightbulb, insisted it actually still worked better than most other lightbulbs, then accused anyone pointing out it was pitch black of being a foreign lightbulb).
how many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb?
- How many #translators does it take to change a lightbulb? - It depends on the context.
Q: How many free-market economists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, the invisible hand will take care of it.
Q: How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Depends how many lawyers are representing the lightbulb, and how long it's prepared to keep paying them.
@mrjamesob How many surrealist Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish #fish
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently either more than one, or at least one who is better than I am at picking the right bulbs (there is no reason I can find that the ones I picked don’t work, but they sure don’t!)
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
Donald Trump's legal team is now 1-45. How many Trump lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? We don't know. They all ran off when Rudy Giuliani farted.
@AFTVMedia I firmly believe Arteta is the right man for the job long term, it's like the how many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Any manager that comes in is gonna be in the same position, let arteta get the bad eggs out and steady the ship, then see what he does in
You're easily terrified, wait until you hear about the highland clearances. How many uncle jocks does it take to change a lightbulb? one, if a Brit tells him to do it.
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
I just asked my alexa to tell me a joke and she said “how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? only one, but the lightbulb has to WANT to change” ... she really is listening yikes
Q: How many channel controllers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The BBC can categorically state that the lightbulbs have increased output under a new executive lightbulb monitoring scheme.......
How many Leave voters does it take to change a lightbulb? One to remove the bulb and 17,410,741 to sit in the darkness and tell everyone else to get over themselves.
Remember “How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?” “THAT’S NOT FUNNY!”
Q: How many Gorilla's does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Twoo-oo-oo-oo: £8 + pp. DM me for signed copies at no extra cost. @Headteacherchat #edutwitter @FFBteachers #TVTTagTeam @MrHtheteacher @TeacherPaul1978 @IDoneDrewThis @BookSuperhero2 @patronofreading @reading_realm
How many Filipino nurses does it take to change a lightbulb? 20, one to do the procedure and the rest to give her a round of applause #gmb
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
how many dds does it take to change a lightbulb
Donald Trump's legal team is 1-40. How many Trump lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? Judge: "That lightbulb is working fine, it does not need to be changed. Case dismissed."
How many fascists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't actually know
How many stable geniuses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many anticlimaxes does it take to change a lightbulb one.
How many punks does it take to change a lightbulb? Two; one to change the lightbulb and the other to smash the chair up afterwards.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? As many as you like, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
Hi, #WritingCommunity. It's been a stressful year and I think we could all use a joke. I'll share one and then you share one! How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. 1 to screw it in most of the way and another to give it a surprise twist at the end.
How many drunks wannabe acrobats does it take to change a lightbulb? One if he is lay on the ground
How many Lionel Richies does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but it’ll take him all night long.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? They don't. They just tell us it's not broken and hope we don't notice.
“How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? Whoa, whoa, whoa. I didn’t say there was a lightbulb.”
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
Instead of a campaign, we need solutions. How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But it has to want to change.
Q. How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Fish.
how many millennials does it take to change a lightbulb? well with these fking bulbs that shatter everytime you try to take them out, from personal experience I can say 5 of us is Not Enough
[S] Q: How many Krakens does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Your case has no merit. Dismissed.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to want to change
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: "Who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?"
how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? only one, but the lightbulb has to want to change
- How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? - Fish.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
My uncle is a comedic genius. "How many Kelly Loeffers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Radical Liberal Raphael stole the light."
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one.All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
question: how many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb answer: they can’t. why? they’re gender
My husband and I spent—I kid you not-45 mins changing out a lightbulb when we accidentally bought smart bulbs. And then a week later it was blinking and we finally replaced it with a dumb bulb. “How many parents does it take to change a lightbulb”was the joke at our house.
So I heard #TwitterOfTime is telling #TamJokes. Here’s mine: How many Cairhienin does it take to change a lightbulb? That depends. How tall is the ceiling?
Question: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
how many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? dont be ridiculous feminists cant change anything
How many black men does it take to change a lightbulb
Here’s a joke: how many presidents does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and another one to hire a bunch of lawyers to try and convince us we’re still in the dark.
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to assure the public that they’re doing everything they can to fix the issue while the other screws the bulb into a faucet.
How many motivational speakers does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, because the change starts with you.
How many builders does it take to change a lightbulb? Three, but that’s just an estimate. Our range of site lighting has everything you need to keep on working safely. We’ve got the lot to light your site up like a Christmas tree. https://fixingscenter.co.uk/c/site-equipment/lighting…
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? One...or two...or one...or two.
Q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: none racists dont like being called racist
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark? #darkhumor #DarkJokes #MEMES
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many anti-vaxxers does it take to change a lightbulb? This is not a joke I'm really asking.
How about this one. How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? Thousands of them, they're all so dim witted that even putting their heads together doesn't quite do the trick.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. After Trump tells them that the light works fine, they stand and applaud in the dark.
How many locals does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many prime ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because when this clown finally realises what a no deal looks like, it’ll take 4 weeks for them to arrive through custom checks.
How many chiropractors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the property in any case.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
Don't know what brand it is, or where it's from, so Google isn't helping either. Sigh.... How many tweets does it take to change a lightbulb?!
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
how many greeks does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one to hold the bulb while the Earth revolves around them.
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb? Just the one apparently
Donald Trump's legal team is 1-40. How many Trump lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? "That lightbulb is working fine. It is a conspiracy by the electric companies not to make that lightbulb work."
Q. How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark
How many @IanColdwater-s does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q- How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? A- I don’t know. There’s a big room full in DC and they’re still in the dark.
How many @realDonaldTrump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. #DiaperDon just tells them it’s fixed and they clap in the dark. #trumPATHETIC #FridayFunday
How many teenagers with attitude does it take to change a lightbulb? 5 or 6, but it'll just explode afterward.
How many Aggies does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many team members does it take to change a lightbulb? #officefun #agentadamlee #goofers
How many Grammar Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? Too
John-boi! Here's one for you: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Sex
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb!!!’ Hilarious.
How many Trans does it take to change a lightbulb ? 2. One that smash the light bulb because it's transphobic. One that self-identify as a lightbulb.
How many remainders does it take to change a lightbulb? None, we’re used to being kept in the dark and the Tories have sold the bulb
Or this, as you are checking the mic: How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? One-two-two-two, One-two-two-two (you gotta say "two" kind of like "tyew" or "chew", while blowing in the mic, for full effect)
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
Q: How many deontological ethicists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Did you just Google “deontological ethics” in order to make this joke? Q: I did. Is that bad? A: Yes, but that doesn’t mean the joke itself is bad.
Reminds me of a joke: how many Virginians does it take to change a lightbulb? 4, 1 to change it while the other 3 talk about how nice the light from the old one was
Basic health measures during a pandemic too difficult for Americans to follow. USA number one for idiocy. The shining city on the hill needs new lightbulbs. How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends. Let us pray for an immigrant electrician. Can’t hurt.
"How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?"
How many hoes does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Johns does it take to change a lightbulb? Hopkins
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in PCI? I don't know but now I have 384 SAQ questions to answer.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it's changed and they all sit around in the dark and applaud.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Hey, wanna ride bikes?
How many Ramones does it take to change a lightbulb 1 2 3 4
Q. How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A. 100. One to change the bulb and 99 others to moronically chant "USA! USA! USA!"
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it has to want to change. Let's remember this with #publichealth approaches to #COVID19. For wearing masks, for not having large gatherings, for accepting a vaccine, etc. We have to change beliefs and behavior.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Q: How many Browns coaches does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 3. One to look up directions, one to keep turning on the light switch, and one to blame the other two for the light quitting on them.
How many GOP Georgians does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many storm troopers does it take to change a lightbulb? none because they're all on the dark side
How many Tory voters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
Same old rhetoric mate. How many Evertonians does it take to change a lightbulb? None they’ll all sit in the dark and blame Liverpool for ever Never going to change!!!
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will be decided in court.
Hey John! How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
I will have a 'how many deprivations of capital does it take to change a lightbulb' joke on your desk by 10 am tomorrow
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Trans does it take to change a lightbulb ? 2. One that smash the light bulb because it's transphobic. One that self-identify as a lightbulb.
How many Trans does it take to change a lightbulb ? 2. One that smash the light bulb because it's transphobic. One that self-identify as a lightbulb
How many #Libtards does it take to change a lightbulb? Lightbulb?!!! Are you serious right now? Lightbulbs cause climate change!
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? "I am a lightbulb."
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many algorithms does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Evertonians does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just sit in the dark and blame Liverpool My grandad told me that joke in the late 90's and it's still apt today
How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but they have shoved a tulip bulb into the socket whether it’s safe or not.
How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question! TRAS only use gaslight.
How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? None because the lightbulb identifies as a doorknob. “Valid”
How many TERFs does it take to change a lightbulb? "First, I demand you define lightbulb..."
Also important to remember that second-wave feminism had a lot to do with killing comedy. (“How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?”) The liberal-left’s war on comedy is nothing new. It goes back fifty years.
‘So I guess we have the answer to that age-old question: how many Santas does it take to change a lightbulb? Thanks, guys.’
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #pun #dadjoke #funny
Here's another one about the Democrats: Q: How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but sadly it's the lightbulb that gets screwed.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb; None they just beat the shit out of the room for being black
Happy Tech Joke Tuesday! How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Yes. #techjoke #techjoketuesday
How many Super Metroids does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Vaguely reminiscent of Someone Famous if I remember right. And--who knew, but amazing anyway--those superpowers can be transferred to others! But, like old adage goes, "How many mentors does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change."
How many Derry scenesters/trouble-makers/tortures does it take to change a lightbulb? Or in this case what looks like a T-Rex record. One from the archive of the mighty Jim Cunningham. "And in the morning, You'll know all you know..."
Ohhhhhh... How many of em does it take to change a lightbulb?
Donald Trump's legal team is 1-39. How many Trump lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? What are you talking about? That lightbulb is working fine. Just because you say it isn't working doesn't mean it isn't working.
How many chickens does it take to change a lightbulb? Come hang out I'm streaming!
I am one of a number of folks helping to facilitate an #IAPP virtual roundtable on #privacy engineering this Thursday. “How many privacy engineers does it take to change a lightbulb—don’t know, we can’t get past the PIA!” Come to this and we will help you https://lnkd.in/eJMfW_u
how many kunos does it take to change a lightbulb
How many incels does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question. Incels cant screw anything
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Lutherans does it take to change a lightbulb? "CHANGE?!"
How many PAS babus does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. One to call his PA to do it and the other to post about it on Twitter.
How many nice guys does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They’d just compliment the lightbulb for whatever they consider to be a long time then get angry when it doesn’t screw.
Game time? How many gymnasts and flips does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? Sorry the lightbulb has been delayed at the border
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn’t matter bc feminism can’t change anything
How many Freudian psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, one to hold the penis LADDER! I meant ladder!
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
#DREAM: how many group texts does it take to change a lightbulb?? three, one to screw it in and two to sit around writing fanfictions
“HOW MANY GROUP TEXTS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? THREE. ONE TO SCREW IT IN AND TWO TO SIT AROUND WRITING FANFIC TO ON.”
#DREAM: how many group texts does it take to change a lightbulb? three. one to screw it in and two to sit around writing fan fictions
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Hey Eamon, how many narcissistic mma catfishes does it take to change a lightbulb?
a good one i saw on tiktok: how many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? one, but it takes *slams brick of paperwork down* this much paperwork and *shouts* THREE THERAPISTS AND TWO DOCTORS to figure out if the lightbulb actually wants to change!
We all know the joke How many aggies does it take to change a lightbulb? 10 1 to hold the bulb 1 to hold the ladder 8 to spin the room
How many Rand Pauls does it take to change a lightbulb? One, ... and Two. And One.... and Two...
How many developers does it take to change a lightbulb? ... Developers don't do hardwares.
Q:how many #DiaperDonnie s does it take to change a lightbulb? A:none "its not burnt out. It's the brightest light EVER!"
How many landlords does it take to change a lightbulb without going insane
How many hipster musicians does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s an obscure number you’ve never heard of.
how many landlords does it take to change a lightbulb
how many lefties does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipster baristas does it take to change a lightbulb? C*nts! (That punchline has to be shouted as loud as you can for maximum effectiveness)
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None . Trump says it’s done ...and they all cheer in the dark.
Unrelated How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb One, but the lightbulb really has to want to change.
How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb All of them, one to do it and the rest to say " I could have done that"
(1) How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? : Jokes
Q: How many TyrantLovers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Tyrant will tell them it's already been changed, and everyone will just work in the dark.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: Only one, but the lightbulb has to want to change. If the person is open to contradicting evidence, you might be able to change their mind. If they're not, you're out of luck.
How many Michael Jackson’s does it take to change a lightbulb? .......Three-hee......:,)
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One.... or two?
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all use gas lighting.
How many Calvinists does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. It was always meant to be burned out.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? 4. One to screw, and 3 to talk about how Neil Peart could have done it better.
My daughter told the best Trump joke yesterday: How many Trumpies does it take to change a lightbulb? None, cause they'll all be sitting in the dark because Trump told them the light is on.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
Q - How many trans id males does it take to change a lightbulb? A - Well, first they need to get their hair & nails done, balls waxed, ballgown steamed & pressed, camera put on soft focus, stage set & audience assembled ... Oh, too many ... just get a cis to do it!
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but you have to sit in the dark for a year and get the opinion of 2 qualified electricians
You sure this isn’t a trailer for a joke on How many ______ does it take to change a Lightbulb?
And what I mean by that is that there are so many different right wing voices that are all so differing and disagreeing with one another it would be hard to accomplish almost anything if a victory were to be won. Can't be how many us does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many extroverts does it take to change a lightbulb? “Hey, let’s have a light bulb for everybody!”
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many bronze players does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows, because they can't climb a ladder.
Bloody hell. How many people does it take to change a lightbulb / assassinate someone?
how many journalists does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Biden Crime Family members does it take to change a lightbulb? 4. Because they're all smoking crack out of it.
How many Dorries does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb?
QUESTION: How many Trump followers does it take to change a lightbulb? ANSWER: Zero The President just redefines “Darkness” as “Light”
Q: How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They just claim they did, and sue anyone who says otherwise.
Q. How many @SEACityLight employees does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Apparently, at least one more than are currently on the payroll, because this one on the 8500 block of Stone Ave N has been blinking for a while... @SeattleCouncil @CityofSeattle
How many non binaries does it take to change a lightbulb ?
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q: How many boring people does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One.
The only thing left to determine is, how many Krakens does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many atoms does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because atoms don't exist!
@JustinWelby How many vicars does it take to change a lightbulb? 35 - 1 to change the bulb and 34 to cover up the victims of his paedophilia.
How many phycologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change
How many Grateful Dead fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just wait for it to burn out and follow it around for 20 years.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Is that one of those “how many does it take to change a lightbulb” jokes?
Old joke: how many border collies does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one; would you like her to re-wire the house while she’s at it?
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Donald Trump just says it’s been changed and all of the republicans sit in the dark.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many border collies does it take to change a lightbulb? One, and she'll get around to it right after re-wiring the house.
Q:How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: It’s a really obscure number. You’ve probably never heard of it.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Telephone Box
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fifty, just in case the bulb resists.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We‘re very efficient, but but not very funny. (I‘m German.)
How many mother in laws does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just sit there bitching about how dark it is!
how many djs does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb and the other to say it was a prerecord
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . Anyone wanna go ride a bike?
q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? a: none no-one likes to be known as a racist
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb? That lightbulb doesn’t need to change!
Genuine surrealist painter joke: Q) How many surrealist artist does it take to change a lightbulb? A) Bathtub full of power tools.
I was going to go with lightbulb. Bunch of useless twits. How many White House 'correspondents' does it take to change a lightbulb? We'll never know...
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish.
how many femboys does it take to change a lightbulb? no, seriously, need to know for a possible business venture
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
Btw dark humor is making a joke about something like real world problems. Take this for example: how many police does it take to change a lightbulb? 0 cause they would beat the black room to death. That is dark humor.
Mental health professionals resist taking on cases like @AnthonySabatini Since they’re inclined to goals of converting all others to their denial system. How many lightbulbs does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
Reminds me of a very unpopular joke: How many Feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? - - - - - - - - That’s not funny!
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. He just tells them it’s changed and they stand there cheering in the dark.
How many semioticians does it take to change a lightbulb? I used to think it was three, but I’m not Saussure.
How many Tory’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero as their is no profit to be made so why bother
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
"How many degrees in car mechanics does it take to change a lightbulb"
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes
How many YouTubers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they do a sponsored video asking a handyman to change it
Reminds me of a joke popular during my time: "How many Oxford dons does it take to change a lightbulb?" Answer: Change!!!? (In outraged tone!)
Changing a lightbulb but his dad says “how many lightbringers does it take to change a lightbulb”
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bitcoin miners does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 million. One to change, all the rest to verify.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one.All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves aroudn him.
“how many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? We don’t know because they’re scared of power” YouTube commenter
Bad Dad Jokes Grandpa: "Ya got a joke for me?" Granddaughter: "How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb?" Grandpa: "How many?" Granddaughter: "The answer will shock you!" Grandpa: "So proud!" #baddadjokes #joke #Thanksgiving #Thanksgiving2020
It's good to laugh, but this is the way she comes across, but not quite that smart. Who was it that propose that you have a sickness that's called, I don't want to work but I should get paid because of it. How many people does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you!
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, if they’re told the lightbulb doesn’t exist, it doesn’t need changing
How many Canadians does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Weaccept them as they are.
Q. How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. That's a hardware problem.
Wisst ihr noch, als wir ständig Glühbirnen wechseln mussten? Ich glaube, ich habe seit Jahren keine mehr wechseln müssen. How many Nikis does it take to change a lightbulb? None!
#alternativepunchlines How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Sausage. #getscoat
How many naked people does it take to change a lightbulb - Rust
I was wondering how many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb. .. My conclusion was that you could get as many as you like , and consequently, none of them would have the faintest idea , of how to fix it
"Again" doesn't make sense cuz that's the first time u said it. Also, it does. Anyone can be bigoted and racist and offensive with dark humour. How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? One He'll just beat the room for being black Get a grip buddy
How many Labour Party Marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the light bulb contains the seeds of its own revolution. (Besides which, they shouldn't be in the Labour Party in the first place!)
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
Q: How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One to promise a brighter future, and the rest to screw it up!!!
I think the old adage of “how many Anglicans does it take to change a lightbulb” to which the stock response is “Change?” could be forced into question by the accession of the heir apparent...for good and for bad
How many hardstuck players does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter, none of them can climb the ladder.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? They prefer gas lighting. #PMQs
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #pun #dadjoke #funny
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fore !!
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the home anyway.
How many Iron players does it take to change a lightbulb? 0, they can't even climb the ladder
How many lava lamps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you...
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
Several cases in which social workers failed to protect kids. Mark Thomas's version, in stand-up mid 80s: "How many social workers does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they hadn't noticed it had gone out."
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadjoke #joke #funny #icanhazdadjoke
How many Mike(s) does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bronzies does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they can’t climb the ladder
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to REALLY want to change.
How many dead babies does it take to change a lightbulb??? Must be more that 10, cos my basement is still pitch black.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? They’ll just beat the room for being black
How many Rioters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, changing a lightbulb doesn't generate enough player value
How many bronze players does it take to change a lightbulb? Nobody knows, because they can't climb a ladder.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many surrealist does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
HOW MANY DYSLEXICS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? STEVEN
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: A Saughton Sonnets Anthology...
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
There is a way out. They’re not forced to support him. Reminds me of the old joke: “How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.”
Q: How many Pisceans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: only the inner light matters. #gotjokes
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: none, the job will be subcontracted out to an "unrelated party" who will supply a world beating lightbulb, it'll arrive in six months and all you'll need is 14 billion quid. #alternativepunchlines
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Kentuckians does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter, they can never figure out how light switches work.
How many Kentuckians does it take to change a lightbulb? Kentuckians: "Lightbulbs? We don't need no stinkin light bulbs. What are you trying to do, cure covid?"
How many Kentuckians does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter, mcconnell blocked electrification there.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? “Fish!”
How many strong Cartesian dualists does it take to change a lightbulb? I’m not sure they actually can. I had 12 of them in here yesterday trying it, but even with all 12 standing on each other’s shoulders, they STiLL couldn’t reach the lightbulb! -Glen Miller
How many garves does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many niggas does it take to change a lightbulb
Relationship counseling. From experience, it can work if you have a good counselor you both like and if both people really do want to better themselves. Q: How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb must really want to change.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
So. How many Trumps does it take, to change a lightbulb" -NONE. -Because the darkness is fake.
How many judges turning you down saying “no fraud!” do you need until you admit the election was fair? I feel like this is some sort of “how many people* does it take to change* a lightbulb*” joke *idiots *concede *election
How many doofus Trump lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? #TrumpLegalTeamNicknames #Trump2020 #TrumpMeltdown #JennaEllis #RudyGiuliani #RudyIsMelting #BidenHarris
How many tough guys does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! because tough guys aren't afraid of the dark!
how many unempathics does it take to change a lightbulb? none. they get someone to do it for them
This is closer to my experience: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? ... Ans:... One... and another 3 to argue why (s)he is doing it wrong.
How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to read the label and one to change the bulb. How many carnivores does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They'd rather remain in the dark.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Clark County election workers does it take to change a lightbulb? 10 for Trump and 2 for Biden. Wait, recounting. It takes 20 for Biden to change the lightbulb now and 11 for Trump. Wait ( jiggles the spreadsheet.) now 28 for Biden and 12 for Trump. Wait... (jiggles)
Today's corny joke brought to you by Sara Wolz. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
How many time lords does it take to change a lightbulb? #drwho
Alternatively: How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they prefer gaslighting.
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many #TrumpLawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? They are still waiting for #HugoChavez and the #CIA to send them the instructions.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump will just tell them all it's changed, and the the Republicans will just sit in the dark and applaud.
how many sunsettias does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many "straight" guys does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 270. So, they’ll just continue to sit in the dark.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? They don't. They arrest the bulb for being broke and beat the room for being black.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
how many trots does it take to change a lightbulb? not sure but there’s two bulbs now and neither of them work also there’s an ice axe in the socket
How many people from Northern California does it take to change a lightbulb? Hella.
Few "Cracker Jokes". How many Leave voters does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to remove the bulb & 17,410,741 to sit in the darkness and tell everyone else to get over themselves ..How many Tory MPs does it take to screw in a lightbulb? None - too busy screwing the country
How many crank academics does it take to change a lightbulb? For £100k from Wikileaks they will create evidence that will claim the lightbulb changed itself.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We are efficient and not very funny.
Q. How many hands does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Many.
Nah y'all just uneducated, dark humor literally takes a bad thing and makes it funny like the old joke "how many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None they just beat up the room for being black" and that's a joke and it didn't happen to me or any white person but it is
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. tRump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Vtubers does it take to change a lightbulb? No, seriously, how many?
How many poets does it take to change a lightbulb? Fuck knows. But I'm going to be changing about 50 today. Doing some DIY today too. What a life! So glamorous!
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
Best ever spin on the "how many daily mail journalists does it take to change a lightbulb" joke
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false. - #pyjokes
Oh.... I thought little Chuckie @SenSchumer was laying the ground work for one of those “how many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb” jokes!
How many suckers does it take to change a lightbulb on the Hill?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many small children does it take to change a lightbulb
How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The free market will change it for us.
Hey Denis, how many dead babies does it take to change a lightbulb?
So apparently people follow each other on this platform. Guess I might wanna start making some funny tweets for everyone so you guys have things to read on here. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change.
It’s like the old Westie joke: how many Westies does it take to change a lightbulb? Silly human, humans change lightbulbs, not Westies, and why isn’t it done yet?
How many misogynists does it take to change a lightbulb Trick question; misogynists will do anything to avoid shining light on a situation
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #pun #dadjoke #funny
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
-How many M.E activists does it take to change a lightbulb? "It's Simon Wessely's fault!!" -What? You know this is a joke, right? Your a joke!! And it's your fault too!!!! -Wait? What?
How many woke comedians does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all get their wives' boyfriends to do it for them.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
How many atheists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it will change itself but it takes a really really REALLY long time .
How many Spaniards does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan I'll get ma coat.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change!
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
Q: How many commies does it take to change a lightbulb? A: I'm not sure - they're too busy torturing and murdering their own countrymen to usher in utopia!
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
next winformation episode titled how many winwins does it take to change a lightbulb
RADIO @/UniverseCity: how many miserable young people does it take to change a lightbulb. please, i am serious, i have been sitting in the dark for 2 weeks
Reminds me of one of those “how many Irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb” jokes.
How many Kayleigh's does it take to change a lightbulb?.... ....whats a lightbulb?
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They use gas lighting.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
this is the darkest "how many X does it take to change a lightbulb" joke I've ever heard
Yes it is, the joke “How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None they would just beat it for being dark.” That is making fun of people with different skin colours than mine and others and making fun of the abuse (some) cops have given and (some) have recieved.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who or what broke the lightbulb and why are we being kept in the in the dark?
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end...
How many rhetorical questions does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #pun #dadjoke #funny
how many punny brewers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
How many anticlimaxes does it take to change a lightbulb two
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark? #jokes
How many people with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb LETS GO PLAY ON THE SWINGS!!! That’s my favourite ADHD joke, I can say it because I’m ADHD (and ASD) my son got proper angry when I told him it though, so I don’t think I’ll buy him This t-shirt.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
how many journalist does it take to change a lightbulb? #صحافت_یا_لفافت
How many Grateful Dead fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just watch it burn out and follow it around for twenty years
Time for attorney (dad) jokes .. “ how many attorneys does it take to change a lightbulb ..... how many can you afford ?” congrats - that’s a lot of hard work
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many microbiologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two—one to change the bulb, and the other to hold the stool.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally, you'd need three, but toucan.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Donald Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he has to hire a team of lawyers to lie about it afterwards.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: Who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
How many Freudian psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb and the other to hold the penis…I mean mother! I mean LADDER!
How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? They’re all too busy playing with the switch.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? We never found out cause nobody could find the light switch?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Pookies does it take to change a lightbulb~? https://instagram.com/p/CHy9TrxhVqA/?igshid=wsjckly1e034…
How many Gary Millers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? The real question is: who broke the lightbulb and why are they keeping us in the dark?
(2022 Tweet) Q: “How many TV producers does it take to change a lightbulb on a Covid shoot?” ME: “YOU DON’T KNOW MAN, YOU WEREN’T THERE!” #covid
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many queer theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? None; once they’ve decided light is a social construct, and that calling it a lightbulb is oppressive to the daffodils, they’re quite happy to sit in the dark.
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to...WANT to change
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you!
How many kaiju does it take to change a lightbulb? — How many you got?
How many trumpies does it take to change a lightbulb?None Trump says it’s fixed and they all cheer in the dark
how many mr tickel’s does it take to change a lightbulb?? he doesn’t have a lightbulb he’s in a tent
How many Grammar Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb... Too
How many transphobes does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question as they don't use lightbulbs as it changes the way the room is 'naturally supposed to look' . #TransAwarenessWeek #jokes
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them that it's changed and they all clap in the dark.
#climatechange #ClimateJustice #ExtinctionRebellion #GlobalWarming “How many environmentalists does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many of me does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but it might take me a couple of years to get round to it. Not a joke just a statement of fact as I've just proved.
How many Openreach vans does it take to change a lightbulb? 100....... 100 to drive past your house and none that will actually change it
Q/ How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ The answer will shock you...
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just say why can't the room be black, you racist!
Q: How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The answer will shock you...
Fact check: Police and the abundance thereof have not once prevented crime. They are reactionary at best, taxi cabs typically, and paid murderers at worst. Before I leave you to licking those boots, as yourself this: How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb. Only one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change.
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One... or two? One...or two?
"Dad Joke" of the week: Q - How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A - It does not matter until the lightbulb wants to change!
How many Jehovah’s Witness does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to change the bulb and two to knock at the door and ask have you seen the light?
How many Satanists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, let darkness reign!
"How many highschool boys does it take to change a lightbulb?" YOU HAVE ACTIVATED MACHO MAN RANDY SAVAGE.
How many @realDonaldTrump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero... @realDonaldTrump says he fixed it and they all stand in the dark and cheer!!!
How many @realDonaldTrump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero... @realDonaldTrump says he fixed it and they all stand in the dark and cheer!!!
Sorry, but investments in mental health won’t help, there’s no changing those cultists. I read a joke the other day, how many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, trump says it’s changed and they all cheer in the dark.
Via @popbitch Old Jokes Home Q/ How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ The answer will shock you... #media #cdnmedia
#25thAmendmentBeforeWeAllDie #25thAmendmentNow #TrumpIsUnwell #TrumpCrimeFamily #TrumpVirus How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them they are not sitting in the dark. They clap and nod in agreement. They really ARE sitting in the dark.
How many people with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, but now I can tell you the entire history of artificial light.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? Who cares. They won't trust the count anyway.
RT @johubris Q/ How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ The answer will shock you... #popbitch
Q/ How many @TheGazette journos does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ The answer will shock you...
@GaSecofState , the question is: How many Georgians does it take to change a lightbulb? 70 million Americans are waiting to find out if you can be trusted to measure the lumber, or count the almonds and peaches we buy from you.
How many Daily Mail website journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you!
If I offend anyone on here, I’m not sorry I just found this funny. “How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?” “None, Trump says it’s done and they all just cheer in the dark” I’m weak
/How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you... http://bitly.ws #PopbitchJokeDuJour
Q/ How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ The answer will shock you... h/t @popbitch
Lifted from http://Popbitch.com Old Jokes Home Q/ How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ The answer will shock you...
Joke from today's mighty @popbitch newsletter: Q: How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The answer will shock you...
How many clickbait journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you!
How many football players does it take to change a lightbulb?
'How many haters does it take to change a lightbulb. non, because haters hate change, even it makes the world a brighter place'.
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he said he’s already fixed it so now y’all are just sitting in the dark.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many babies does it take to change a lightbulb? Definitely not 8, because my basement is still dark. #DarkJokes #darkhumor
HOW MANY THERAPISTS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? This Amazing, Eye Opening and Highly Educational Training video set just went on sale with a big 85% off discount for the next 48 hours. https://sellfy.com/jonathanroyle/p/KvG6/… P.S. Hurry up, the discount won't be around forever.
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?...None, he just says “it’s fixed” and they cheer in the dark.
How many Teamsters does it take to change a lightbulb? 8... (what, Yooz got a problem wit dat)
how many bisexuals does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? "1" or "2"?
How many oomfs does it take to change a lightbulb guess we’ll never know Did I do oomfs right
How many @realDonaldTrump cultists does it take to change a lightbulb? One to deny the lightbulb needs to be changed, and nine to file lawsuits...
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? 3 . 1 to hold the bulb and 2 to turn the ladder.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it's fixed and then they sit in the dark and applaud.
One of my all-time favorite jokes was told to me by a bartender in Munich: How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One, because we're very efficient and we don't have a sense of humor.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one! All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him. #Language #narcissism #Philosophy #PhilosophyPun
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
Working down that path and now referred on to additional professionals, too. A the joke goes: “how many psychiatrist does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to *want to change...”
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? None cause they don’t believe in change.
how many med students does it take to change a lightbulb none b/c if ur lazy like me you'll just keep showering and peeing in the dark instead
How many @realDonaldTrump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer is - NONE He tells them it’s working and they all sit there in the dark!
Q: How many sorority girls does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Fortunately only one, but the world has to revolve around her.
How many storm troopers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Because they are all on the dark side
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud
how many anti brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb .. None .. the lightbulb must WANT to change .. or stay in the EU for ever ..
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb?....Just one....but everyone will ask if they are sure about it first.
How many SEO copywriters does it take to change a lightbulb, light bulb, bulb, lamp, light, eco-bulb, bulbs, fluorescent tubes? #TKD
How many stockbrokers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to take out the bulb and drop it, and the other to sell it before it crashes. @Tony_BATtista @tastytradar
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump says it's fixed and they all just sit in the dark and applaud.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem #change #programmers #none #lightbulb #problem #many
This is meant to be the answer to the surrealist joke: “How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?” However, the effect is the same absurdity.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many dawlat’s does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? There is no amount because they all cry and say it's someone else's fault it went out and they should fix it.
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they expect someone else to buy it and change it for them
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many city employees does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to check with the lightbulb department, One to schedule it and two supervisors to cash in on overtime while pretending to confirm light switch was changed.
How many CIA agents does it take to change a lightbulb? Shut up, tankie.
Q. How many sociologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. 10.... 9 to try to change the lightbulb and one to write a dissertation titled “The Unbearable State of Darkness”
& how many sociologists does it take to change a lightbulb? None: it’s the system that needs to change.
How many Marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The lightbulb contains the seeds of its own revolution.
How many police officers and Matt Hancock's does it take to change a lightbulb
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? 5. One holds the lightbulb and 4 turn the ladder around.
how many humanities students does it take to change a lightbulb? stay tuned we will find out in my room very soon
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
@talktalk how many openreach engineers does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many hookers does it take to change a lightbulb? One but every client gets a turn.
That's v true. How many Manchester United fans does it take to change a lightbulb at Old Trafford? Two: one to change it - and his mate to drive him up from Surrey.
Yes and yes. And so many, i.e. Hilary and Bernie, warned us. One of my favorite jokes: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? To get to the other side.
How many militant feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? THAT'S NOT FUNNY!
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? 4. 1 to change the lightbulb and 3 to talk about how much more gratifying it is than a man could ever be. (A very 70s joke).
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Trump says is done and they all cheer in the dark. Thats the amount of blind loyalty these people have. It's honestly scary.
Well that answers the age old question of how many cats does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only 1, but it has to be read to change.
How many @realDonaldTrump s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supports does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says that it's changed and they all cheer in the dark.
How many HRS fanatics does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? none. trump says its changed and him and his supporters cheer in the dark
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Okay, ich hab auch einen: How many TERFs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still use gaslighting.
Q: How many baby daddy’s does it take to change a lightbulb. A: None. They are all at the club looking for another easy mark.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? You can't change a lightbulb in the dark.
How many CIA agents does it take to change a lightbulb? 3. 1 to change the lightbulb and 1 to confuse the facts.
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Fish. Q: How many American women does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One. She holds onto the bulb & the rest of the world revolves around her (sorry friends )
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but they have to admit the bulb is burned out first.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Flor, How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many bloggers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Beatles does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just wait until Trump says it's working again.
how many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb I’ll let you know when a good cop changes anything
How many grunge stars does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: "How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?" Guy on pole:
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he just says it’s done and they cheer in the dark.
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? THE ANSWER WILL SHOCK YOU!!
How many police does it take to change a lightbulb I wonder.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many Non-binary people does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but every time we try to tell a cis person what type of fitting we need so they can hand us the right one they just tell us our lightbulb is ~*valid*~ instead.
How many trans people in the UK does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but if their spouse says they can’t they have to stay in the dark
How many Jesus’ does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he is the light.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
how many conductors does it take to change a lightbulb? nobody knows, no one watches the conductor
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. But the lightbulb has to want to change. It's the same with men. You can change a man. If the man wants to change for you. Set standards Let him meet your standards. No excuses
how many nats does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, if they’re told the lightbulb doesn’t exist, it doesn’t need changing
How many Philippine government officials does it take to change a lightbulb? Idk they didn't say how many exactly but there will be a task force for it
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the property anyway.
How many committee members does it take to change a lightbulb, more essential maintenance! Club wouldn’t run without these chaps @TerryHo84940925 @paulhoward65 @maisie_duck
how many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? one, but first you need to pay for 6 different therapists and fill out a huge stack of paperwork just to make sure the lightbulb wants to change
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Trump says it's done and they'd all cheer in the dark.
Happy Pratturday Zargon. I have a joke for you... How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change the lightbulb and one to tell you how Neil Peart would have done it better.
But if someone makes the joke „how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just shoot the room because it‘s black“ is a nice joke with its roots in racism and police brutality, making it also criticism on social structures.
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb
Q: How many New Yorkers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Go fuck yourself
How many receptionists does it take to change a lightbulb anyway?
How many IOTAS does it take to change a lightbulb
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many marshalls does it take to change a lightbulb? Unfit in body, training, character. #Unfit
How to get a Jewish girls #: ---roll up her sleeve How do u pick up hot Jewish women @ Dachau? ----with a dustpan How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb ----none; they beat the room for being black
@martinkelner How many fucking feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but bulb has to WANT 2 change ... Transwomen WANT to be women but can't EVER change their sex - regardless of psych's skill #TransWomenAreMaleTransvestites - at least those still with their nuts
Looking to @RobinFlavell to carefully craft a “How many Senior Downing Street Sources Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb?” joke.
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Roadies does it take to change a lightbulb? 1... 2... 2... 1... 2...
How many fish does it take to change a lightbulb? Cod only knows.
Q: How many #golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: FORE! (1994) A: FOUR! But they say it only took 3. (Reddit-Cleanjokes, November 13) #riddles #jokes #puns #golf https://barrypopik.com/index.php/new_york_city/entry/how_many_golfers_does_it_take/…
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
“how many tr*mp supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? none, tr*mp just says it’s done & they all cheer in the dark”
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They use gaslighting
this tik tok said “how many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? none. trump says it’s done so they all cheer in the dark” lmaooo
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s done & they all cheer in the dark.
Q. How many GPs does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Trick question, GPs don't change lightbulbs. Analysts do. While Principals supervise.
How many mechanics does it take to change a lightbulb? Idk, but it sure takes FOREVER. Love sitting in BWI
How many descriptivists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't need to be changed. Dark rooms and light rooms are equally well-formed; one isn't 'better' than the other.
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s been done and they all cheer...in the dark
How many members of the NMC does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just produce a policy document called "How to live with the dark".
How many charlatans does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many guests does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Guests must never change a lightbulb!"
How many #Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? What's a lightbulb?
How many electricians does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, they just hold the lamp and the world revolves around them. (If only)
How many BBC engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Three - one to hold the bulb and two to spin the chair
How many economists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The market will sort it out.
How many Zavalas does it take to change a lightbulb? Cannot quantify it with a number, because he doesn’t do jack shit.
How many Slaad does it take to change a lightbulb? Lettuce!
"How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb" Kittens: "We can't stop playing with it!" Cats: "... as IF."
How many business owners does it take to change a lightbulb? #parkhillfitness #parkhilldenver #colfax @ Park Hill Fitness https://instagram.com/p/CHio2i5n6cO/?igshid=19zqiglf7mohc…
Q: How many cloud experts does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Define ‘lightbulb’…
How many #feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they can't change anything.
Great, now I have to tell this joke (thanks, Dangle): How many Super Saiyans does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it takes 5-10 episodes to do it.
How many political scandals does it take to change a lightbulb? You didn’t seriously think that the amalgamation of Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael was going to change anything, did you?
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they use gaslighting
How many Freudian analysts does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change the bulb, the other to hold the penis.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish
Q: How many Ben Smiths does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Six
How many #Trump officials does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all use gaslighting. Uh thankyouverymuch
S1E7 opener: "How many Polaks does it take to change a lightbulb? One to hold the lightbulb and 99 to turn the house". Lmao
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many Riftside goblins does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they've got Light cantrips like everyone else. This isn't a hole in the ground, you know. #DreadfulRealmsDadJokes
how many emilys does it take to change a lightbulb ?? idk they would have to find one first
He we go again, in fight about how many Ds does it take to change a lightbulb? Biden needs to lead the country not play petty fight ring master. We had Trump for that, how’d that work out?
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all use gas lighting.
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark
Begs the questions ‘how many men does it take to change a lightbulb’? and now ‘ how many police does it take to close a gym ‘? Complete waste of police time and £67k fine silly
As a child in Montana, we told North Dakotan jokes. How many North Dakotans does it take to change a lightbulb? 5. One to hold the bulb, four to turn the ladder.
Q: How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they just get someone else to do it, and then take credit for it.
Well I lost precious minutes off my life, lol, but I think that guy is saying “How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None; they’re too busy questioning their gender.” Anyway, I’m going to go join the translator profession now.
How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb? CHANGE???
@WarComTeam I've just noticed that in the #bloodbowl #Khemri roster it doesn't only have an error, but the error also tells us when it thinks it should be fixed Also: How many editors does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
I'm new to this thread but I had to have a go at making my own! How many nonbinary people does it take to change a lightbulb? None will do it. Instead one leaves it burned out and sets up x-mas lights, LEDs and lasers because they're way more interesting and unique.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
On the lighter side... How many assistant managers does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. Two to find out if it needs changing, and one to tell an employee to change it. #onthelighterside #reddeer #coffeenews
Hey @Arbys I've got a joke for you. How many employees does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb ? None, their butler changes it for them.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it's done, and they stand in the dark and cheer.
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?? 1,2....1,2!
Rediculous waste of resources, kinda like how many people does it take to change a lightbulb.....they all know the answers to viewers questions, rather they were at work actually physically helping people....not Dr H of course, he cant remember what patients are.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, when you have light fittings as impressive as this it's quite an operation. Thank you to our @UnivOxford Works Team for all they do to keep us and our learning illuminated! #LetThereBeLight #UnivLife
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes
How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? Germans are efficient and have no humour.
How many VETERANS does it take to change a lightbulb? That’s right. You DON’T know! Because YOU WEREN’T THERE!!!
how many britishes does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they didn't understand because they call them "sparky prollers"
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you...
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He just says he changed it and they all cheer in the dark.
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you.
Shanaplan was five year plan to build a Stanley Cup team. Year 6 starts in January so right on track, William. How many Hab fans does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them. One to change it while the rest talk about how good the old light bulb used to be...
'How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?' substitute... 'How many police does it take to arrest a gym owner?' Answers please
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? 0 they shun the light
Can Somebody Answer This Question? How Many Lesbians Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb?
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
how many Norwegians does it take to change a lightbulb
How many insufferable pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? Technically, you don't "change" a lightbulb. Lightbulbs don't change. You have to remove the lightbulb and replace it with a different lightbulb.
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you... #jokes #ClickBait
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
how many Republican Senators does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They thrive in the dark. #TrumpConcede
How many Chandrachud's followers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He says if you don't like darkness, don't look at it & all cheer in the dark.
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you...
“How many #clickbait articles does it take to change a #lightbulb? The answer will shock you!” (Reddit-#Jokes, 2014, 2016, 2020). #riddles #puns https://barrypopik.com/index.php/new_york_city/entry/how_many_clickbait_article_does_it_take/…
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you...
How many clickbait articles does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer will shock you...
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #randomJokes #RandomJokesIO
“Hey Alexa.. tell me a joke” “How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb.... one but the lightbulb has to want to change”
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? FIVE MILLION FEWER than Donald Trump.
how many dachshunds does it take to change a lightbulb tho?
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two - one to change the bulb and the other to hold the penis.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? NOT NOW! Too busy stealing an election.
How many Magats and Bernie bros does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Better have a recount on that.
Wow, my Alexa just threw shade... I asked her to tell me a joke about hockey and she said: “How many Maple leafs does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows. It’s been so long since they made it to the final step.” #LeafsForever
How many Trump lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Because THE PEOPLE elected him, you dimwit. How many stupid conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb. So sick of this bs...a whole week.
Now playing: Dillinger Four - 'Q: How Many Punks Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb?' from 'Versus God'
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
And yet we still wait for decisions which affect our economy, mental health and NHS. It’s that old one how many does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Rins does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many rins does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many of your kids' squad does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it's already lit, fam.
Q: How many Twitters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The highest non-even number less than twelve. But this claim about 11 odd is disputed.
q: how many cat people does it take to change a lightbulb? a: just one, but the player has to help
how many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? none. they all use gaslighting.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Borg does it take to change a lightbulb? ALL OF THEM!
How many cupcakes does it take to change a lightbulb??? I don’t know but it sounds pretty sweet!!
[Dad Joke]: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many cupcakes does it take to change a lightbulb? (you supply the punchline...)
How many Tracys does it take to change a lightbulb???
How many pandemics does it take to change a lightbulb? - it’s not about the lightbulb
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
how many dem’s does it take to change a lightbulb? ....
How many Aggies does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one — if it’s Ryan Tannehill!
How many dead hookers does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently not 3, because my trunk light is still out.
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Hulk Hogan's does it take to change a lightbulb? None, no light bulb goes over on Hulk Hogan!
How many stormtroopers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Because they are all on the dark side.. #jokes #puns
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many #MAGA does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None. tRump lies and says the lightbulb was changed and the #MAGALosers all clap in the DARK!!! Fake president tRUmp is the source of fake news.
– How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? – Juan
How many Spanish men does it take to change a lightbulb ? Juan.
Q: How many Republikkkans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump tells them it’s already been done and they cheer wildly in the pitch dark. #AmericaOrTrump #25thAmendmentNow #RepublicansAreDestroyingAmerica #AmericaDecides2020
How many climate-deniers does it take to change a lightbulb? none, cause they love living in the dark! #WithdrawTheCAP isn't that so? @TimmermansEU also, while you're reading this:
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many U.K. cabinet ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? None! They prefer gaslighting.... #Brexit
How many punkrockanarchists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? Disgusting display of law enforcement
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Okay question for @TedYoho how many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb. None. @realDonaldTrump just says it’s fixed and the rest of you sit in the dark and applaud. #GOP
How many translators does it take to change a lightbulb?
This is a new take on the how many orthopods does it take to change a lightbulb question?
How many @EssexPoliceUK does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Our final #OTWeek2020 quiz question is: How many OTs does it take to change a lightbulb?... None - they teach you how to do it yourself! @allofusinmind @theRCOT @BarnsleyAHPs @swypftOT @NHS_RobW @SalmaYasmeen_1 @EyUpCharity @DaveW4tson @ElaineCLane @StrokeYorkshire
Something about you: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump will say that he alone fixed it beautifully while his supporters are still applauding him in the dark a month later #Election2020
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but the lightbulb has to want to change
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb at marvel studios. Have u seen how many people r in all these credits
LMAO HOW MANY TRUMP SUPPORTERS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB??
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? 4.2 million fewer than Joe.
I expect nothing. How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb. Just one. But the light bulb has to really want to change
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He just claims that he changed it and everybody cheers in the dark.
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb ? None. It's a hardware problem
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump will say that he alone fixed it beautifully while his supporters are still applauding him in the dark a month later!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Bot: How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: A Brazilian
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
I think you just push and turn anti clockwise. I'm sure there's a joke in here, how many Twitter users does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s fixed and the rest just sit in the dark and applaud
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None, cuz liberals can't change shit.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump will say that he alone fixed it yugely well while his supporters are still applauding him in the dark a month later!
How many police does it take to change a lightbulb? Dunno, rule of 6 prevents us from finding out
Anyways, how many centrists does it take to change a lightbulb? I'll get back to you on that one when a Centrist makes any meaningful change
How many Lower Decks characters does it take to change a lightbulb? #StarTrekLowerDecks #StarTrekDiscovery @MikeMcMahanTM @
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s fixed and the rest just sit in the dark and applaud
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
[04:01:45] How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? | hytesuke | None that's a hardware problem
[03:41:45] How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? | hytesuke | None that's a hardware problem
[03:21:45] How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? | hytesuke | None that's a hardware problem
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to want to change. Persuasion is only possible when the person is open to it. Otherwise, only force, avoidance of worse, or an offer of much better, are effective.
how many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Trump Supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? STOP THE COUNT!
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q:- How many #Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A:- None, #DumbDonald says it's done and they all stand around cheering in the dark.
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because he says it’s fixed and they all just sit around in the dark applauding him.
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many Trump sympathizers does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! Trump says it works, so his followers are celebrating in the dark.
How many Trump sympathizers does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! Trump says it works, so his followers are celebrating in the dark.
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Idk let’s wait till a good cop changes anything.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? https://yopg91.com/how-many-trump-supporters-does-it-take-to-change-a-lightbulb/…
how many yasmines does it take to change a lightbulb
This is from a good friend in #Denmark: How many #Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Trump says it works, and his supporters cheer in the dark! #Election2020 #FridayVibes
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Germans are efficient and do not tell jokes.
Overheard elsewhere: Q. How many of Trump's base does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None, he just tells them it's already done and they cheer in the dark.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many Trump supporter does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know - they told me to stop counting.
How many Donald Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? We don’t know, they’re still counting. #TrumpMeltdown #USAelection2020
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? 4 million fewer than Joe.
How many President Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? .... NONE!! He won't actually change the lightbulb, he will simply lie about it and then have 50 Republicans back him up.
Ruto supporters are the most delusional! How many ruto's supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently none,ruto will tell them its changed and they'l stand there in the dark clapping for their 'hero'...huyo jamaa anawapoteza for his own peraonal gains
While I am on the topic, here’s a relevant #JokeoftheDay How many fanboys does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. The rest simply stand round complaining how the original was better.
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'd rather sit in the dark and blame Trump
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, nobody counted.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? - None, Trump announces it's done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many trump voters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He tells them it's done and they cheer in the dark
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They simply tell everyone it isn't broken to begin with. Also, did the Democrats take lessons in bullshit and electoral fraud from the ANC? It's looking frighteningly similar.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes
How many astronauts does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? http://hez.us/fn7goj
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many Modi Bhakts does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Modi says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Macs does it take to change a lightbulb? Insufficient Memory to complete operation.
how many apple users does it take to change a lightbulb, none, when a bulb goes they move house
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, I stopped counting.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many DDS does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Ipapatokhang kasi yung bumbilya kasi adek, tas lahat sila sisigaw ng YES NA YES sa dilim.
How many @realDonaldTrump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb ? .....None . Trump tells them its fixed and they all sit happily in the dark.
How many @realDonaldTrump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? We don’t know, he made us stop counting.
How many holograms does it take to change a lightbulb?
Old joke: Q: How many Poles does it take to change a lightbulb? A: All the ones that know how are dead.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Idk... they stopped counting
@juliemason Not my joke, but I thought it was funny: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it's done and they all cheer in the dark!
How many construction workers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They never show up to do the job.
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump could say it's done and they'd all cheer in the dark.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark. #BidenHarris2020 #DumpTrump
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? #Zero, he tells them it’s the most beautiful light that ever existed and they all cheer him in the dark.
Q: How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: It depends. I need to know the following-- (1) Please provide some context for this question. (2) What are the definitions of "lawyer," "change," and "lightbulb" as used in the question? (1/n)
How many jobsworth @EssexPoliceUK does it take to change a lightbulb? #PoliceState
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, they stopped counting.
#SeenOnReddit How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . . . . I don't know. I've stopped counting.
I’ve always said to people when I meet them that I’m a Surrealist. Most just give me funny looks, but they all ask “what’s that”? “Let me put it this way. How many technicians does it take to change a lightbulb?.... Waffles.”
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many coppers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb. None! Trump says that it’s done and they all sit in the dark and cheer. #CountAllTheVotes
1/2 How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb??
How many illegals does it take to change a lightbulb??
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark. #trump #jokes
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? none. trump just says its done and then they cheer in the dark
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark. #Elections2020 #TrumpMeltdown #Biden2020
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I dunno, I stopped counting...
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it's already changed and they all stand around in the dark and cheer.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just tells them it’s already done and they all cheer in the dark.
I love Reddit. "How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?" - None. Trump says it's done and they cheer in the dark.
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None - Trump says it's done and they all cheer in the dark
How many @realDonaldTrump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. Trump says it’s done, and they all cheer in the dark
How many police does it take to change a lightbulb wow
How many Officers does it take to change a lightbulb????? Where are they when they're needed for REAL crimes?
@itsJeffTiedrich How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? #None, he tells them its the best light anyone has ever seen and they all cheer him in the dark and blame poor people when they bump into things.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know. I stopped counting.
How many police does it take to change a lightbulb in a gym during lockdown? #covid
How many Trump Supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? STOP THE COUNT! STOP THE COUNT! STOP THE COUNT!
How many Biden supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? As many as they need. They will just keep finding people under rocks, dead people, unregistered people, robots, kids, cats and dogs. Just like they did with ballots.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know. They stopped counting.
How many MAGAs does it take to change a lightbulb? IDK serious question I stopped counting.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? https://reddit.com/r/Jokes/comments/jog7nf/how_many_trump_supporters_does_it_take_to_change/?ref=share&ref_source=twitter… via @reddit
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They only *talk* about change. I hold my part of the deal!!
Q: How many trans eggs does it take to change a lightbulb? A: ... you can... change it?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? No idea. They stopped counting...
How many bots does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know I stopped counting.
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One... or two? I bought the world's worst thesaurus yesterday. Not only is it terrible, it's terrible. #DadJokes
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, I've stop counting. #ElectionResults2020
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, they asked me to stop counting
how many horses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump would tel them it’s done and they would cheer in the darkness
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
Q: How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just one. But the house falls down. https://discordianquotes.com/quote/q-software-engineers-does-change-lightbulb-just-house…
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark. via https://reddit.com/r/Jokes/comments/jog7nf/how_many_trump_supporters_does_it_take_to_change/… #ElectionResults2020 #Elections2020
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s done and they all cheer in the dark.
How many horny men does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A Fish
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Intel Pentium engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five! One to hold the ladder and the other to screw in the bulb. Ahh old nerd jokes.
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q How many mothers does it take to change a lightbulb? A None. Don't worry about me, I'll just sit here in the dark while you have a good time.
How many holograms does it take to change a lightbulb?
I just tried to change a lightbulb and it blew a fuse lol how many s does it take to change a lightbulb xx
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
We will have better voices to “lead the smart conversation” only when we really want them. Most of us just want our biases confirmed and not to be enlightened. How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They certainly not get the family home in any case.
April McMahon of @OfficialUoM starts her remarks at our webinar with @LloydsBank with an HE joke summarising a caricature of HE: —‘How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb?’ —‘Change...?’ She then explains how, in fact, institutions have moved v fast since March.
How many dinosaurs does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know he’s too busy playing poker
How many Manx drivers does it take to change a lightbulb? Change? Why? The other one works just fine!
How many Pollsters does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them, but they'll get it wrong, and we'll still be stuck in the Dark.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
★How many closed Poles does it take to change a lightbulb? @realDonaldTrump
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many @donaldtrumpjr s does it take to change a lightbulb? None since your girlfriend makes $7500 a month from your father’s campaign funds, she can pay her girl to do it, since you’re unable to.
How many pie makers does it take to change a lightbulb? 3.14159265359 XD
How many Liam Gordon's and Billy Crellins does it take to change a lightbulb ? #bwfc
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just beat the room for being black.
Or some other meaningless excuse query like how many pollsters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump voters does it take to change a lightbulb? 100,000. One to change it, 99,998 to keep chanting "USA!", and one to have a go at his sister.
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? FORE!
It like the old joke: How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they’d rather sit in the dark and complain.
how many physicists does it take to change a lightbulb
Bot: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? More than one, it seems
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
[13:24:46] How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? | hytesuke | None that's a hardware problem
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
[12:09:46] How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? | hytesuke | None that's a hardware problem
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? One . . . . Butler did it.
Completely agree with your comments on Discovery Bank - Disputed transaction from 4/9/20 still not sorted. Communications with 9 different Discovery personnel have gone nowhere! Prompts a Question - how many Discovery personnel does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? The correct term is 'replace', actually
I thought it was pretty funny. The 'how many Ethereum devs does it take to change a lightbulb' joke writes itself. Ethereum aint perfect and our devs aint perfect and self-deprecating humor is always appropriate.
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two . . . . One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
psssst how many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two! One to change the bulb and another to give it an unexpected twist at the end!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many grammar nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
How many Saes does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t matter how many. As long as one of them can make a phone call to Wales and ask for the electricity.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many dead babies does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
It’s the rich influence not about law! After all I can hire as many lawyers as I like but if there’s definite proof I broke the law surely 1 lawyer would do! Is this a how many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb type joke!
How many freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb and the other to hold the cock, no the mother, I MEAN THE LADDER!
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Feminists can't change anything.
Q: How many #surrealist #painters does it take to change a #lightbulb? A: A fish. (1986) #riddles #jokes #surrealism #artists https://barrypopik.com/index.php/new_york_city/entry/how_many_surrealist_painters/…
How many Tech Priests does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Nate Silvers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just because he’s up on the ladder now with a new bulb that he chose using an algorithm that averaged the ratings of 500 lightbulb review websites, there’s still a 10% chance of him not changing the lightbulb.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many barbies does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many #leftists does it take to change a lightbulb? IDK but it only takes one for lefty loosey, but you always need someone who can turn right to see the light!!! #leftdarkness #badjoke #MAGA #usa #trump2020 #4MoreYears
How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, the other to check the packaging for animal-based ingredients in a fucking lightbulb, you twat. #worldveganday
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? I'll let you know when a good cop changes anything.
Q: How many ADD kids does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Gee, what a pretty butterfly. Do you want to go bowling later?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just call fox news, Mitch McConnell and Billy Barr and they do it for them.
“How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb?” "Replace a lightbulb.” *screams*
How many Italians does it take to change a lightbulb? One and a half.
Q: how many lockdown sceptics does it take to change a lightbulb? A: WAKE UP SHEEPLE! You Really can't *change* a lightbulb because they are ALL controlled by the Globalist Elite who are using them to bring about a New World Order and GREAT RESET and-
there goes a funny joke How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
@bonniegrrl How do you drive a grammar fanatic crazy? Tell them this joke. How many grammar Nuts does it take to change a lightbulb? Too. Nope, it's won. That's not wright.
"How many Apple employees does it take to change a lightbulb?" Source: Michael Moritz's 1984 book The Little Kingdom #Apple
How many grammar Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb ?... Too
for #WorldVeganDay imma tell you my favorite vegan joke: how many meat-eaters does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they rather stay in the dark about things
How many Amy Schumers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, she thrives in darkness.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many Lebanese does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They have to fly in 10 migrant workers to do it
How many witches does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. They change them into frogs. https://punsandoneliners.com/randomness/halloween-jokes/… #HalloweenJokes #Jokes #humour #halloween
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Leftists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ans- Infinite. Coz they will just sit around and protest against the injustice by the bulb company.
Lyska just made one up: How many pumpkins does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it has to jack a lantern first
how many south americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A BRAZILIAN
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Is this one of those how many hacks does it take to change a lightbulb jokes?
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Zero, Just tell them it's already been changed and they'll sit there applauding in the dark --------------------------------------- Q: How do you get tRump to change a lightbulb? A: Tell him Obama installed it.
Today I am the butt of every “how many techies does it take to change a lightbulb” joke. Don’t get recessed lighting. It sucks.
This lamp is seriously dim. Definitely not the brightest bulb... How many drunks does it take to change a lightbulb?
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
Ah no.. How many blueshirts does it take to change a lightbulb? Traitors. Why did the blueshirts cross the road? Traitors. Why are people getting minted off DP? Traitors. etc.
How many Liberals does it take, to change a lightbulb in Alberta ? Every last one of them, otherwise the Albertans would beat the hell outta all of em !
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
Bot: How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: Let's go ride bikes!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
@danilic ... favourite climate denier jokes ... I just made two up ... how many climate deniers does it take to change a lightbulb? What lightbulb? Also, I’ll only change it if Xi Jinping changes 15 million of them first. ... ok not great but cheer me up with some ...
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q: how many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? A: so you’re having some trouble with the lightbulb? It’s probably related to your hormones, I’m gonna reduce your HRT just to be on the safe side
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE. @realDonaldTrump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
How many peculiars does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Peculiars are pretty oblivious to whether the lights are out or not.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they all use gaslighting...
How many DJs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None They just keep beating the room for being black
How many neoliberals does it take to change a lightbulb? none because they don’t change anything.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many liverpool fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they all just sit in the dark and talk about how great the old days were
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb?? ..... Just Juan #JokeoftheDay
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many autistic daughters does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but it has to be changed fifty times.
How many Kiwis does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Kiwis are too conservative to change anything.
How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end! #WritingCommunity #joke
How many Marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The lightbulb contains the seeds of its own revolution.
How many Marxist-Leninists does it take to change a lightbulb? Not my job, comrade
How many Chicago school economists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Market forces will change darkness into light, thus rectifying the imbalance
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. (Two to write a folk song about the third one changing the bulb by herself.)
How many mathematicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. He recruits two Irishmen, reducing it to a previously solved problem.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many neurosurgeons does it take to change a lightbulb? One to hold the bulb while the revolves around him.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Q: How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end.
Q: How many witches does it take to change a lightbulb? A: It depends on what you’re trying to change it in to. #THISISHALLOWEEN #ThursdayThoughts
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many @VanArkel_Laura s does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but she’ll probably hurt herself
How many Republicans does does it take to change a lightbulb...none...Trump says its fixed and the rest sit in the dark and applaud
How many yogurts does it take to change a lightbulb
Q/ How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end. via @popbitch
How many firefighters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud
Here's one for you Paul @chinarhyming, courtesy of @popbitch Q/ How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end.
Q/ How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end. #dadjokes
Dad joke time Q/ How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end.
How many thriller writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end. #PopbitchJokeDuJour
Old Jokes Home Q/ How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ Two. One to screw it in most of the way, then one to give it a surprise twist at the end.
When I think of trump “solving problems” I usually think of the following joke: Q: how many Microsoft employees does it take to change a lightbulb? A: none. They just redefine the paradigm of “darkness”.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it's fixed and the rest of them just sit in the dark and applaud.
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? I'll let you know as soon as a good cop changes anything.
@andipeters How many Andi’s does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but I’ll do it when I finish nightshift. Hope you’re well, my mate.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. A good cop has never changed anything.
Q. How many super stabby people does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Several.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #hipsters #obscure #heard #probably #many #oh
Hey got a joke for you: How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't know, they never change anything.
how many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? no one knows, a good cop has never changed anything!
How many Hoyas does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many T*RFs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Vietnam vets does it take to change a lightbulb? YOU DON’T KNOW, YOU WEREN’T THERE MAN!!
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb none cause they haven’t changed anything
You’ll have to excuse the Steelers fans, they’re stuck in the past. “How many Steelers fans does it take to change a lightbulb?” They don’t, they just talk about how great the old one was.
A joke to lighten the mode from my 13 year old. How many Alzheimer’s patients does it take to change a lightbulb? To get to the other side. Hey wait, where am I?
How many utils does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They're afraid of change- even if it makes the world a brighter place.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just announces that the lightbulb is fixed, and they all sit in the dark and applaud.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many optitians does it take to change a lightbulb?? Is it one, or two?? One........... Or two..?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb?? None, they choose gaslighting...
How many swiss people does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They only talk about change, they never actually follow through.
Q: how many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest sit in the dark and applaud.
Q: how many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest sit in the dark and applaud.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it needs a man.
An advisory committee, that’s like the joke “how many women does it take to change a lightbulb?” Basically a spoil sport committee, bring back Mary Whitehouse...
@BradleyWhitford But no one's done more for black people than T...except MAYBE A.L. But the blacks have to WANT to change says Kushner...like the how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb joke. Dear God.
How many sentinels does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they use gaslighting.
How many Taggs does it take to change a lightbulb?
UK Press & Gazette (as it was known then) had a funnies page. How many press & PR officers does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, I'll get back to you. 1/2
How many Kantian ethicists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: I’m sorry, but that isn’t a correct formulation of the principle.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it’s a hardware problem.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Joke Time Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who knows? trump signed an Executive Order claiming he already changed it and the Republicans sit there in the dark agreeing with him.
There is a joke about changing a lightbulb, as in ‘how many of XX type of people does it take to change a lightbulb?’ One was about psychologists. The answer? ‘The number is irrelevant but the lightbulb must really want to change.’ http://ow.ly/tDfK50C0KyV #leadership #hrtip
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One to promise a brighter future, and 99 to screw it up. Ta-Dah!
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
For my fellow #StarTrek fans: How many Klingons does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: 2. One to change the lightbulb and one to insult the other for being afraid of the dark.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Not sure because they never finish anything.
I can still make one if you want. How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question. They just beat the room for being black.
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one who does a tremendously great job. A better job than anyone could do. Infact changing lightbulbs is about the only job he can do adequately. Best president the US had since Obama!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
So how many dads *does* it take to change a lightbulb, anyway?
How many optimist does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! The butler changes the lightbulb Always poor Never bored
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Like that corny Psychologist's joke:"How many Psychologist's does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Only one, but the lightbulb's got to want to change"
how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but the lightbulb has to want to change — i-
How many software PMs does it take to change a lightbulb? . .. ... .... PM: What problem are we trying to solve? Whose problem is it? Why is it a problem? Let's reframe the problem. Can we use the Sun?
Q : How many Everton fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A : None. They just sit in the dark and blame Liverpool.
How many dwarves does it take to change a lightbulb?
Here's a joke I just invented. How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. It just is whatever it says it is. To change it would be conversion therapy. Boom tish. About as funny as yours.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
It’s an old joke at this point, but: How many transphobes does it take to change a lightbulb? Transphobes: “Zero. Why don’t you accept your lightbulb the way that it is”
Which begs the obvious question: 'How many ministers does it take to change a lightbulb.'
How many transphobes does it take to change a lightbulb?... None. They all use gaslight.
How many Blues does it take to change a lightbulb?.. None, they just just sit in the dark and blame Liverpool
#superedusunday A4 1. Not spread myself too thinly 2. Do the best we can to keep staff panto and nativity, in whatever guise we can. 3. Try to boost morale (dad jokes...?) whenever possible. (How many Mother Superiors does it take to change a lightbulb? ...Nun) sorry...
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They only talk about change
How many #ToryScum does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one to hold the bulb while the world revolves around them. (sorry)
How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two One to screw it most of the way in and one to give it a surprising twist at the end
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Googlers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the house anyway.
How many wastelanders does it take to change a lightbulb? 3 apparently.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? I'll let you know as soon as a good cop changes anything.
“how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn’t matter, they’ll just beat the room for being black” is dark humor “half of the ‘girls’ in this community aren’t actually girls” however, is not (AHEM looking at someone, you know who you are) learn your terms
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fore.
How many software PMs does it take to change a lightbulb? None. You need a project manager since this execution now. The PM already set the strategy that we need to change the lightbulb.
How many big corporations does it take to change a lightbulb? Change?
How many software PMs does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . “Is the light bulb not working? What do you hope to accomplish by changing it?”
Thank you! I think Paine field deserves a stash of lightbulbs! How many airports does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one... Portland.
How many software PMs does it take to change a lightbulb? PM: “One, of course...” Team: “lol”
I'm still trying to find the bad part of this? Why is firing under-preforming workers a bad thing? How many gov workers does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, we'll need to gather a committee and decide where to go on finding that out.
How many gurus does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None, because change must come from within. @rebootcampfilm #austinfilmfestival #aff27
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many software PMs does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . - what kind of bulb is it? - is it only one or do we have more of the same kind? - what’s the expected outcome? - do we know the KPIs? - align with this qtrs OKRs? - let’s put it on the backlog
How many software PMs does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . It’s a hardware problem.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
how many gamedevs does it take to change a lightbulb in a videogame?
Q: How many Husker fans does it take to change a lightbulb ?? A: 100. 1 to change the bulb, and 99 to talk about how great the old one was! #RTB #SkiUMah
How many PMSing women does it take to change a lightbulb? ONE, DAMMIT!!!!!!!
Q: How many "Welsh" Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? A: They don't want to change the lightbulb,they expec you to see from next doors.
How many radlibs does it take to change a lightbulb? The entire commune, because it requires a vote.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false. - #pyjokes
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they use gas lighting.
#SaturdayChallenge How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb ? None. Until the lightbulb really wants to be changed.
How many Welshmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Where are you going to get a new lightbulb from?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all use gas lighting.
How many Ulster Scot herdsman does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all live in eternal darkness ha haa. This Catholic and Gods favourite checkin in
Q. “How many Donald Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?” A. “None. Everything’s great! There’s nothing wrong with the lightbulb. Fantastic bulb!” #TrumpJoke
Heard a joke long ago that was to the effect of “How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb?” “Ten, one to change it and nine to tell him how they’d do it differently”
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Q: How many leftist does it take to change a lightbulb? A: you really shouldn’t mock the struggle like that.
Q. How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. ........Fish. I'll get my coat.......
how many retxrds does it take to change a lightbulb?? two. one to do it and the other is @AOCummies.....
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to assure the public that they’re doing everything they can to fix the issue while the other screws the bulb into a faucet. #vote #VoteThemAllOut
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Oh god I’m terrible at jokes....ummm..... nope... all far too filthy....... I only know about two clean jokes!! How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but the light bulb really has to want to change.
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question, the only good cop is a dead cop
"How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb?"
@AdrianO99837002's account is temporarily unavailable because it violates the Twitter Media Policy. https://Learn more.
How many Kobach’s does it take to change a lightbulb??? None. They’d rather sit in the dark... Get it??? I’m here all week,, no cover charge.
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They blame the Democrats for not changing it.
Dark humor: How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they’ll beat the room for being black and arrest the bulb for being broke. “Dark” humor: slurs
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #pun #dadjoke #funny
Eu nem bebi e estou rindo dessa besteira: "How many prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? no"
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they prefer gaslightling. #EatNowtToHelpOut #ToryCorruption
How many of your nieces "squad" does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they're already lit fam.
Q. How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None! They believe the darkness is a Democrat hoax designed to show Trump in a bad light
How many Ginger people does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They prefer to sit in the dark.
“How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb” —> the worst pick up line I’ve ever heard
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? I'll let you know as soon as a good cop changes anything.
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
Is this @10DowningStreet 's version of how many xxx does it take to change a lightbulb joke?
Yo how many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? I’ll let you know when a good cop changes anything
How many IT people does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Irishmen does it take to change a Lightbulb?
@KTLA Just how many #lapd cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Likely as many as it does to respond to this car jacking. Maybe a donut shop was close by. #DefundThePolice #PoliceReform @MayorOfLA #PoliceState
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJokes #dadJoke
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb?None, they'd rather keep their clients in the dark!
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? Two : One to decide which of his contractor mates to give the job to and how many £m to pay, and one to sort out paying for it.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Choose a punchline... How many US Presidents does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one: Donald Trump, but a) he first needs to take out the one Obama changed b) he needs his White House staff to tell him how Obama would do it, so he can do it the exact opposite way...
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? 10. 1 to change it and 9 to stand around saying: ‘What watt? What watt? What watt? #ToryTools #ToxicTories #ToryThieves
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb..? None..they prefer gaslighting
translation: how many monkeys does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer is none, monkeys don’t know how to change a lightbulb in the first place
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
I read it a second time and my brain changed and completed the joke to: How many atheists does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't believe there is a lightbulb.
How many anaesthetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten, nine, eight, sev... #WednesdayMotivation #WednesdayThoughts
Um How many cakes does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Alzheimer's patients does it take to change a lightbulb? To get to the other side
How many kids with A.D.D does it take to change a lightbulb? HEY WANNA RIDE BIKES??
How many State Frosh does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None it’s a sophomore course. How many State Sophs does it take? A: 15. 1 to change the bulb and 14 to go around to all the other ACC schools and tell them their bulb is just as good as the one in Chapel Hill.
"How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?" . . . "Three. Two to hold the giraffe and one more to fill the bathtub with brightly coloured power tools."
How many Koch brothers does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows. They eat them.
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . Juan
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #RandomJokesIO #dadJokes
How many car salesman does it take to change a lightbulb? #askcarsales (from /u/eskimoexplosion)
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That's a hardware problem.
How many Marcus Nispels does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Marcus Nispels does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many national socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? As many as you need. They’re all unemployed. PS: patriot punk
How many Ska musicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the light bulb, and three to pick it up, pick it up, pick it up.
How many patriot punks does it take to change a lightbulb? None. BECAUSE THEY DON'T EXIST
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all use gaslighting.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many accident-prone people does it take to change a lightbulb? We're on our sixth.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they prefer gaslighting. #ToryCorruption #ToryLies
how many coppers does it take to change a lightbulb? none, it fell down the stairs
Jokes?! I've got to be funny now?! Ah, the pressure... ok, tell me if you've heard this one. Q: How many RRP authors does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . A: BRING JASON BACK, RICK! YOU MONSTER! I kid, I kid! Just exceedingly happy to be part of this team.
How many chelseas does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . It depends on how easily they can spin it.
How many male authors does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb looked at herself in the mirror, admiring her feminine curves. She knew she was a little dim, but that was what had attracted him to her. "You're not like other bulbs," he'd said on the way back from B&Q.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #pun #dadjoke #funny
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they prefer gaslighting.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? a Brazilian.
How many women with pms does it take to change a lightbulb? Only ONE cuz the bulb has been lying in the damn drawer for bloody AGES and nobody has changed it till now! That's right. Leave everything to me.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Liz Truss's does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to throw away the perfectly good lightbulb. One to work on a deal with Kazakhstan for a replacement candle.
Q: How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They have a machine that does that now. #gotjokes
How many ADCs does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Vision is the support’s job.
Bot: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Bot: None that's a hardware problem
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Account managers. Q. How many account managers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. How many would the customer like it to take? Q. How many design engineers does it take to change a light bulb? A. F*** off, nothing gets changed.
Q: How many coaches does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one. But the lightbulb has really got to want to change.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #pun #dadjoke #funny
@ItsVinceQuinn I’m a huge Dallas Cowboys fan born and raised, but this is pretty funny: How many Dallas Cowboy Fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer, None, we just sit around and talk about how good the old one was! Love your show Vince! Rick Fairless @strokersdallas
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Republican Senators does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJoke #RandomJokesIO
Seen on Facebook @Kevinweav2003 : How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they prefer gaslighting
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
BUT WILL SAVE THE PLANET, DUMB*SS! SHEESH, HOW MANY OF THESE FOOLS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB?
How many sandpeople does it take to change a lightbulb? Nobody knows, sandpeople travel single file to hide their numbers.
Q - How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? (Comedic pause) A - Trick question, feminists can't change anything.
Stolen but very appropriate here: how many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they prefer gaslighting
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadjoke #joke #funny #icanhazdadjoke
‘’Q. How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None, they prefer gaslighting.’’
Goodnight! How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?? An orange!
#BetterTogether How many Nigerian Leaders does it take to change a lightbulb? Nigerian Leaders: "They don't need the light now", "Lazy Youths", "Police, kill them off", "I'll bribe the next guy", "Who is your leader?". #EndSWAT #ENDBADGOVERNANCE
How many novitiates does it take to change a lightbulb? Almost Nun
How many Krajina Serbs does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, they invented that shit.
Meanwhile the 3 Canbury ward councillors are non-existent. Reminds me of the joke “how many people does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian Your #daily #funny #joke
How many Pope’s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they prefer gaslighting.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they prefer gaslighting...
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Gary Numans' does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 but then Gemma makes him to change to a bulb of another wattage that Gary doesn't like
How many tuchekks does it take to change a lightbulb
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. 2.
I've been working on a 'lightbulb' joke in my head - Q - How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? A - One to call it a transphobe, one to tell it to 'suck my girldick', and the rest to start a pile-on to get the lightbulb suspended (from Twitter).
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Reminds me of a joke... How many railway employees does it take to change a lightbulb? 4. One to change the lightbulb, two to hold the step-ladder, and a manager to oversee it while talking on a mobile phone!! Something I've seen in real life!
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change!
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just talk about changing it but never do anything about it
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many Boss Girl's does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one standing on a chair #shortpeopleproblems
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the editor has the last word...
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! Your #daily #funny #joke
How many arts students does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. Your #daily #funny #joke
How Many #AdTECH People Does it Take To Change a Lightbulb? @KnittingMedia @Tim_Harvey Dec 1 and Dec 2, #SamsungKX, London https://2020adtechldn.ministryofnewmedia.com Registration is now open
How many Tory Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb?....None...they prefer Gaslighting.
How many Doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s either 2, 15 or 15.5
How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? What lightbulb? This saucer full of greasy tallow with a tiny textile wick is a perfectly acceptable source of illumination.
how many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? none. they just beat the room because it's black.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they prefer gas lighting. #BrexitReality
I know a joke. Q. How many Conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. They sit in the dark & blame Trudeau :)
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb must want to be changed...
there goes a funny joke How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Basic Girls does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because it's already lit, fam.
On the lighter side... How many real estate agents does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten, but we’ll accept eight.
How many chiropractors does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but it takes twelve visits.
How many builders does it take to change a lightbulb? Three, but that's just an estimate and it won't be till the middle of next week, anyway.
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb. 20: 1 to change the bulb & 19 to tell you how good the old one was. How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, we need a quorum to discuss who did it last time.
How many Doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows!
How many Staffords does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, we prefer gas lighting.
I’ve finally (re)learnt my @BananaCrabtree script which is fine until @DirectorDan86 comes up with his ‘new vision’... How many theatre directors does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh lordy, now he wants to change the lightbulb!
How many Doctors does it take to change a lightbulb?
My favourite was always the public service version. How many public servants does it take to change a lightbulb? Only two. But the lightbulb has to want to change.
how many nct members does it take to change a lightbulb... i am now wondering
how many sharks does it take to change a lightbulb — none?
How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in most of the way and another to give it a surprise twist at the end.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Govt: Depends on the setting. If you want a tattoo you can get the tattoo artist to help you. But if you’re in your own home and require assistance, you’ll need to sit in the dark for a few weeks.
How many Civil Servants does it take to change a lightbulb? A report will be issued in the spring.
How many lesbians (and years) does it take to change a lightbulb...
How many phlegmatics does it take to change a lightbulb? None bc we don’t care.
how many visitors does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they like the light bad.
Q- How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A- Zero, they just listen to Trump say it’s screwed in and sit in the dark and cheer!
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They certainly not get the home in any case.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many SNP ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh God we have Covid-19 They are doing manipulated polls on Indy, now they want to change a lightbulb.
How many directors does it take to change a lightbulb? Dunno, what do you think?
Q: How many screenwriters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Oh God, now they want to change the lightbulb.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many snowboarders does it take to change a lightbulb? 27. One to do it, eight to say they could do it better, and the rest to sit on the landing
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? No
Just about everyone I know who has network issues on a conf call is on Comcast. How many Comcast customer service agents does it take to change a lightbulb? ... Is the lightbulb plugged in sir?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Cobblers; what hope is there of 'shoe leather' Track&Trace fixing it if Serco's IT has come unstuck? @edwardtimpson UK needs local rollout of Huawei5g superglue. How many Shadow Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb ? #GMB @RachelReevesMP
What the eff is wrong with that backwards, southern, red state? How many GOP republicans does it take to change a lightbulb or fix a computer problem? Not enough apparently.
How many Proud Boys does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but then he won't shut up about how he can't possibly be racist because he installed a blacklight.
it's like the how many people does it take to change a lightbulb thing but the table cloth trick instead
How many proud boys does it take to change a lightbulb? That’s silly. Proud boys don’t change shit. They just want to sit in a dark room, punching each other and yelling the names of breakfast cereals, while insisting that lightbulbs are cultural Marxism.
Question: how many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: fish.
How many Country & Western singers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Two - one to change it and one to sing a song about the old one!
Excellent! How many Dark Age warlords does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . That’s not funny.
How many ndtv debates does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Is this a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
how many "Marxist-Leninists" does it take to change a Lightbulb? None. They don't change anything because they don't vote.
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb #circuitbreaker
is this one of those "how many @FedEx drivers does it take to change a lightbulb" jokes?
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
Intellectuals tend to overthink things and loose sight of the forest for the trees. Which reminds if the old joke; how many PhDs does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: "How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb in a conflict zone?" A: It's a trick question. They are all willing to express "extreme concern" and expect that this is enough to change the lightbulb. #Artsakh #Armenia #Azerbaijan #NagornoKarabakh
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many femmes does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many harushikis does it take to change a lightbulb? — None because their one shared braincell is too dumb to do it anyways. Please let Jun do it if you don't want your house to catch fire (Still I love them <3)
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Using this joke never gets old. “How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud! “
how many hockey players does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Palestinians does it take to change a lightbulb? 5,000. 1 to change it, 4,999 to stand around and chant “DEATH TO THE ELECTRIC COMPANY!”
Isn’t Disneyland capable of sharing their opening business plan with Disney World without Gavin interfering? Everything they do is like those jokes about how many Gavins does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh and Lakers riot and Armenian parades are fine but church is still a ban
HOW MANY TORY SCUM DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB... NONE BECAUSE THEY ARE ALL INCAPABLE OF DOING A SIMPLE TASK AS THEY WILL NEED TO TAKE A VOTE ON IT AND THEN DDDDCCCIDDDE TTTTTTOOO HAVE A DEEEBBBATE
How many women with PMS does it take to change a lightbulb? WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES IT MAKE!
How many simps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but Toucan. (I hope this post doesn't ruffle any feathers.)
how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change.
How many Trans folks does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but there are 3+ years of waiting before you're allowed to remove you the bad bulb first. Related: A friend of mine is crowdfunding their top surgery - Consider it booking an electrician.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #pun #dadjoke #funny
May I refer you to the following joke: When asked ‘How many Oxford professors does it take to change a lightbulb?’..... “Change?!?!” they reply.
How many Frenchmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer. Just one, he holds onto it and waits for the world to revolve around him.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None Trump tells them it’s changed and the supporters clap in the dark
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
how many ravens does it take to change a lightbulb
How many members of the #KBF death cult does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They prefer to hide in the dark away from the prying eyes of this dystopian government who might make them wear a mask and wash their hands and everyfink if they spot them.
How many trans folks does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but you'll need to wait a few years until a committee of psychologists and psychiatrists has certified them first. (can't remember where I stole that line)
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? none, because they beat the room for being black
how many feminist's does it take to change a lightbulb? dont be ridiculous... feminist's cant change anything
How many of the Lost cast does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but it will take 20 episodes.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Q: How many members of the GOP does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they only use gaslight.
there goes a funny joke How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Right backs does it take to change a lightbulb?
First, he would have to think he needed to change. He thinks he is perfect so yes, pointless. You know the old joke, how many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but it has to really want to change.
For today's #NormaliseNudityDay #NormalizeNudityDay we ask: how many naturists does it take to change a lightbulb? Learn about the #normalizenudity #NormaliseNudity project from @ToplessTopics at https://toplesstopics.org/normalizenudityday/…
BIG STUPID SPREADER!! HOW MANY STUPID REPUBLICANS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB???
Feel like there's potential for a million 'How many Crisis Team staff does it take to change a lightbulb' jokes...#MadCovidChat
How many subby girls does it take to change a lightbulb? None. I didn't tell you to, sweetie~
How many feminist does it take to change a lightbulb? None, feminist can’t change anything
How many Arabs does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They'll sit in the dark and blame the Jews
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None! They're too busy changing their gender!
RT @nbcsnl @breannamorello @JannaWilkinso69 Evolution to Democratic TV. How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None it’s a republican problem.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says he did it and Republicans sit in the dark and cheer! #TrumpIsDangerous #TrumpIsACoward #TrumpIsUnfitToServe
How many Jules' does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One...or two One......or two
How many real Springsteen fans does it take to change a lightbulb. None they all prefer Darkness
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Writers: Do we have to change it? #amwriting
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many sweethearts does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but you’ll have to wait nine months to see them due to the cuts #WMHD2020
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
--- How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? --- A fish.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three but toucan. #dadjokes
Forget the “how man ...does it take to change a lightbulb?” Today it’s “how many charter busses does it take to have a football team travel?” #SocialDistancing
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: But her emails!! #Republicans
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q: How many white supremacists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 5. 1 gets confused and sticks the lightbulb up his ass while the other four yell about how the lightbulb disappeared bc a black person stole it
How many creative directors does it take to change a lightbulb? Technically one but they'll need a team to rearrange the house, move furniture, and repaint.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? Germans are efficient, not funny.
How many sociologist does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one... but the bulb must first want to change ...It’s too early for jokes anyway. Tune in today at 11:15 am for the #TVJClassTime Sociology Session! Tag a friend and spread the word!
How many ESG standard setters does it take to change a lightbulb? You’re asking the wrong question, but the lightbulb better prepare to disclose a lot of information.
Tory philosophy re contracts is like the old lightbulb jokes. How many consultants does it take to change a lightbulb? As many as the Tories can get away paying for mismanaging the lightbulb change before people start asking questions.
Q: How many consultants does it take to change a lightbulb? A:” We’ll hire another one to find out...” I remember when everything had to be privatised because public services were, “Too costly, overmanned, and inefficient ... “
How many Donald Trump juniors does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he would rather sit in the dark and be ignorant of the facts.
High 5 Kamala! Truth over flies! How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
how many stormtroopers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? none because they would rather sit in the dark and be ignorant of the facts.
One of the best versions of how many x does it take to change a lightbulb I’ve seen in awhile. Thank you for the giggle! #bluewave
I see his fear tactics worked on you. How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many Deloitte consultants does it take to change a lightbulb? As many as you can afford to pay for. Except the light bulb won't actually get changed.
How many brewers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Jack, but he is really excited to be able to see into the boil kettle again. #growinguptoofast #ourlittlebrewer
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. But the lightbulb has to WANT to change.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? The fish.
how many madman phillips does it take to change a lightbulb? zero she manifests it and it just happens FIGHT FOR TBH
How many Naku's does it take to change a lightbulb? Seven. One to sing about it, one to burp, one to pog, one to default dance, one to break his headset, one to tell the coffee joke, and one to screw. Also a meer to click a door.
How many Smiths fans does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . . . . None. There Is a Light That Never Goes Out
How many eagles does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many presidents does it take to change a lightbulb? There must be an answer
How many Deloitte consultants does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends how much money they can get out of government to do it.
How many Deloitte consultants does it take to change a lightbulb? Or use obsolete Excel as a world beating database? @DrRosena @DavidLammy @DeborahMeaden @JohnWest_JAWS
Hey Lex, I have a joke for you. How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . One but toucan Brought to you by a sign on the way to moms appointment.
This "how many consultants does it take to change a lightbulb" situation is mesmerizingly stupefying! Test & Trace & Public Health proven areas of expertise in local government and this top down, centralised approach, armies of consultants + shocking expenses dreadful.
How many Deloitte consultants does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends how much they can get from the government.
how many 'pop band' drummers does it take, to change a lightbulb, they don't, they use machines!!!
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many women with PMT does it take to change a lightbulb?
#tdc3192 #ds106 How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Karen’s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? Literally one, while everyone around them is telling them to slow down and wait a bit first.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Spaniards does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many trans activists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fifty. One to change it, 49 to tweet about what a hero they are.
how many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump says it’s changed and the rest sit in the dark and applaud.
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just tells them he fixed it, and they sit in the dark and applaud.
Now you know the fact behind the question “how many people does it take to change a lightbulb?”.. A few.
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? One? Two? One? Two?
How many Salvador Dalis does it take to change a lightbulb (into an elephant)?
how many elios does it take to change a lightbulb
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to want to change. #dadjokes
And how many Intelligence Officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
It may be too soon... How many rock guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to do it and two to argue about Van Halen would do it better.
How many Torontonians does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
And then my favourite.... How many brass players does it take to change a lightbulb? A full band and a conductor. The conductor to hold the lightbulb whilst the band drinks until the room spins!!!
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many Super Saiyans does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . FIND OUT NEXT TIME, ON DRAGONBALL Z!
How many screenwriters does it take to change a lightbulb...? Just one. But first they’ll have to describe how they ENTERED the room....?!
RADIO @/UniverseCity: how many miserable young people does it take to change a lightbulb. please, i am serious, i have been sitting in the dark for 2 weeks
How many married men does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Their wives get sick of asking and change it themselves.
You only get to be the subject of "How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "12. One to change it, and 11 to argue about how Eddie Van Halen did it." if you are quite extraordinary.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Q: How many myrrh-perfumed corpses does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One. Q: "One"? That joke makes no sense. A: On the contrary, a myrrh-perfumed corpse makes a lot of scents.
Q. How many B&Q customer service employees does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Thanks for your call. A manager will call you back within 48 hours. I asked that question on 11 September. STILL WAITING!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #pun #dadjoke #funny
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
My life atm feels like a “how many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb” joke because of my fucking kitchen light,,, you’d think the real estate would be aware that the bar light is fucken directly wired into the roof,,, and not just a change the light bulb situation?????
How many Exoplanets does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Zero because she gave up before she got started. It’s me. I’m the blonde.
How many millenials does it take to change a lightbulb? Thirty. One to change it. Twenty nine to tape and tweet about it.
how many Erins does it take to change a lightbulb? one, but it will take her 5 months.
How many refrigeration engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, because they are so chilled!! #commercialrefrigeration #industrialrefrigeration #airconditioning #ventilation
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many spineless toadies to a narcissistic wannabe autocrat does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The old lightbulb is continuing to improve, and will be working again on Monday.
How many storm troopers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They are all on the dark side. #LindlersThoughts
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supports does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many idols does it take to change a lightbulb
How many IBM people does it take to change a lightbulb? One to write 'Incandescent Sources of Illumination, Maintenance and life-cycle', a team of 10 to write the user manual every other page of which is blank save for the legend 'This page left blank intentionally'..
How many docs does it take to change a lightbulb or to sow misinformation?
How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Crimsonflames @basstheface How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb....or do a news conference #coronavirus #trump
What else have they done shoot black children and what did South Park do twist it into humor because if I have a sense of humor actual humor you would know it’s dark ex: how many cops does it take to change a lightbulb, none they would beat the room for being black
How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Everyone else in the room is complaining about the age of consent.
Nailed it. Humor is key. Even corny humor. In that spirit, here’s a stupid shrink joke for your Sunday... Q: How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They use gas lighting.
How many MAGAts does it take to change a lightbulb? ZERO. Trump claims he fixed it and they all applaud in the dark.
#Trump2020LandslideVictory How many Russian bots does it take to change a lightbulb? Seriously Jack... How many?
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They certainly not get the house anyway.
How many Teenagers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just 1. He holds the lightbulb and lets the world revolve around him. #dadjokes #SCEDAdads
How many Corbynites does it take to change a lightbulb? CHANGE? Chaaaaange?! No!
Urgh... rant ahead... how many witnesses does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they can't be bothered. A couple who 'look' after my aunt (shop 1 every 2 weeks and that is it) brought her lightbulbs in shopping because one had blown. 1/4
How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb in Trumps’ ase ?
how many kennys does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many of Trumps doctors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadjokes
Sorry, more lightbulb stuff.. Q: How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb must really want to change.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
@primulaone How many Naomis does it take to change a lightbulb?? NONE because Ellie does it for her!!
Reminds me of the gag. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? You'd think in this pandemic they would have better things too do than all stand around a lectern. Who has the TIK TOK camera? baby shark up next.
How many Republican senators does it take to change a lightbulb? Or to confirm a #SupremeCourtJustice appointment? Suddenly, the questions became more complicated.
How many upper-castes does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still use gaslighting. #DLM #DalitLivesMatter
A whole new opportunity for jokes! How many Antifa does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Antifa breaks the lightbulb and beats up anyone who tries to stop them.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump just tells them it’s fixed and then they all sit in the dark and applaud.
Q. How many #GoPats does it take to change a lightbulb. A. We don’t know. They replaced all the lights with energy efficient LED bulbs back in 2017 and they have been running fine ever since.
Q. How many #NewYorkFootballJets does it take to change a Lightbulb? A. We don’t know. Every time they go to Home Depot they come back with the wrong ones. (in thick Bavarian accent) Zank you. I’ll be here all zee week.
How many Londoners does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, hold the bulb still and wait for the country to revolve around it
How Many Psychologists Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb? One. But, The Lightbulb Really Has To Want To Change.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many Manchester United executives does it take to change a lightbulb? One, except if it has to be transferred from one hand to the other. Then it just ain't going to happen. #mufc #manutd #manchesterunited #edwoodward #glazers
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
I’ve got one for you! Q. How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Just one, but it'll need nine more sessions.
how many nuest members does it take to change a lightbulb??? all five apparently
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
If it looks like a Comrade, sounds like a comrade then it is a comrade. By the way, how many comrades does it take to change a lightbulb? None! As real communism only has the power on one hour during the day. Mwahahaha
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How Many SEOs Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb. #SEO
How many Judith Butlers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because the lightbulb is a social construct.
How many moms does it take to change a lightbulb? "...oh we'll just sit here in the dark"
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? More than 6, especially if one has symptoms.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Other countries are probably telling American jokes now...”How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many MET officers does it take to change a lightbulb ? https://facebook.com/100049391739049/posts/175577807431943/?extid=0&d=n…
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? #MAGA2020 #MAGA #Trump #GOP #jokes #hilarious #JK #FunniestVideos #Trump2020 #TrumpIsALaughingStock #brainwashed
How many software developers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That's a hardware problem. @sbar713 @CivCat
How many lightbulb jokes does it take to change a lightbulb?
@LoriGottlieb1 Can't recall if it's in one of your books, but in case you hadn't heard the joke: How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb has to want to change
“How many inklings does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! The jellies do it for them!” Echoed laughter.
Really, what makes you say that? How many hypocritical, misogynistic, tyrannical, orange presidents does it take to change a lightbulb. Only 1, we are so screwed.... ;-(
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s working and they all sit in the dark and applaud him. #TrumpIsARacist #BidenHarris2020
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
'How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb?' 'Psychoanalysts.' 'Psychologists.' 'Christ.' I only just noticed Alex says psychologists at the same time, that's brilliant. Gene's definitely got his work cut out. #AshesToAshesLive
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Why does it have to change?! #amwriting
how many Biden digital staffers does it take to change a lightbulb? one to tweet about it and one to build the ‘Text BULB to 30330’ animation
Q: How many Psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but the lightbulb must want to change.
How many Sid James impersonators does it take to change a lightbulb? Phwoar.
how many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they just wait until trump says it’s fixed and they sit in the dark and applaud
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many coaches does it take to change a lightbulb?? ONE ... when you have Coach Vishnu available and who is also a certified scissor truck driver! #newpracticelocation #licensedscissorliftdriver #teamwork https://instagram.com/p/CFwwZ1whGdz/?igshid=w22vaf3vr2mb…
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One, we are very efficient and don't do jokes.
how many amz does it take to change a lightbulb
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
HOW MANY LIBERALS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? NONE BECAUSE THEY'RE TOO BUSY CHANGING THEIR GENDER
I think it's supposed to be, "How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're too busy figuring out their gender." Except it got ran back and forth through Google translate and a random symbol generator a dozen times.
"How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're too busy [DATA NOT FOUND]"
My type of dark humor: How many vampires does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it's a sunlamp
How many protons does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends on who's looking.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb ? None. Trump says The lightbulb works fine, and the GOP stands up in the dark and cheers him.
How many Arseids does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they cant even do that right!!
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s working and they all sit in the dark and applaud him...
“How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! Their butler changes the lightbulb.”
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, in Portland it takes 15 to arrest 1 guy in a wheelchair, so... they probably can’t.
Classic! An old personal favourite is: How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to check the ingredients. How many meat eaters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They'd rather stay in the dark.
How many Conservative economists does it take to change a lightbulb ? A: None. "There is no need to change the lightbulb. All the conditions for illumination are in place. Recent surveys show growing confidence in the lightbulb lighting up again.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Q: How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. He can’t afford a new one. #BrokeAssTrump
How many Jae’s does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 - one to change it, and another to twitter search his own name every 6 seconds #Day6JaeUpdates
How many time lords does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they wait for it to regenerate. https://punsandoneliners.com/randomness/doctor-who-jokes/… #DrWho #DrWhoJokes #Joke #Humour
Dad's Freudian slip joke: How many Freudian analysts does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, the other to hold the penis. LADDER. I MEANT TO SAY “LADDER.”
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! Donald Trump just says “it’s fixed,” and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud! #RacistTrump #TrumpCrimeFamily
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many american cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter how many they would just try to beat the room for being black.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it is fixed and they sit in the dark and applaud.
how many engineering students does it take to change a lightbulb? two. this isn’t a joke it just took me and a friend to change a lightbulb today
Very well. By special request of @Omilburn : How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? 1/2
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
Is this the right thread to tell my “How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb” joke?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all stand in the dark. And, tell everyone the light is still on. ???? How many Covid deaths does it take to upset Republicans? The world will never know.
How many Karens does it take to change a lightbulb, Karen?
Have you seen the ‘How many GC feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?’ joke?
How many content people does it take to change a lightbulb? 10 1 to change it and 9 to say how they’d have done it differently.
how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in the Ambedkar University Delhi office? None. They are all used to gaslighting.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many sketchy drifters does it take to change a lightbulb? I'll let you know as soon as they get back with the special lightbulbs I gave them $80 to buy for my place. They're some kind of educational light bulb, they're really special. Special ed. Hash tag blessed
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Donald writes an executive order, and nothing changes anyway! #AnybodyButTrump #LockHimUp #AnyFunctioningAdult2020
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Donald writes an executive order, and nothing changes anyway! #AnybodyButTrump #LockHimUp #AnyFunctioningAdult2020
How many nice guys does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just compliment it and get pissed off when it won't screw.
That’s an oxymoron. Classic joke: how many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? That’s not funny.
How many morons does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t matter they are all in the dark anyway!
I guess im rasist for cracking the old "how many cops does it take to change a lightbulb" joke
How many Service Dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? None. We don't do that. This is a #SmartBulb but it's not smart enough to change itself. But if you tell the #googlenest to turn on or off the lights it will with these bulbs. We got the nest free with #airmiles. 1/
White racist goons start the shit. Want to hear a joke? How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many sailors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many guys does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many punks does it take to change a lightbulb? .... punks never changed anything.
How many Tanners does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many kismets does it take to change a lightbulb — more than you'd think
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? One but everyone watching will tell them about how they won't be able to change back to the broken one.
Q: How many Ramones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many snooker players does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many philosophers does it take to change a lightbulb?.... none. They're not really into that sort of thing. If it's that dark, light a candle." :- Phil Cornwell
how many riamus does it take to change a lightbulb
Dr Morgan once tried to program me with a sense of humour. He asked: How many robots does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: 00110001 I soon learned that sarcasm was the route to my humour.
How many easily distracted people does it take to change a lightbulb? A DOG!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard. #jokes #funny #pun
How do you take this apart to change the lightbulb? (No jokes about how many does it take to change a lightbulb please ) I cant open it!!!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
This How many Boris Johnsons does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it’s the fridge door closing and the lightbulbs fine
How many lead singers does it take to change a lightbulb? One. He just holds up the lightbulb and the world revolves around him.
*insert a “how many Xs does it take to change a lightbulb” joke here*
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says “it’s fixed!” While the rest sit in a dark room applauding. #VoteTrumpOut
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb Steven
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . None, they prefer gaslight
there goes a funny joke How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
there goes a funny joke How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
there goes a funny joke How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
how many lonely bisexuals does it take to change a lightbulb? two but it wont actually get done because theres on… — exactly
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s working and they all sit in the dark and applaud him.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Steelers fans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many therapist does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
Ok fine!! How many Chris Browns does it take to change a lightbulb??
How many tinies does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but I'm too distracted by your enormity and awesomeness!
Q: how many “BLM scares me” tweeters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: face it, you’re not interested in light, change or really anything that involves twisting things up a bit to fix something that’s broken
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Not enough.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
how many gecs does it take to change a lightbulb
Couldn't resist copying this one. How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s working and they all sit in the dark and applaud him.
Q: How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One. We're efficient.
how many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many passive-aggressives does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't worry, I'll just do EVERYTHiNG by myself.
how many pigs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? #ThursdayThoughts
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the family home in any case.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false. - #pyjokes
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many ska kids does it take to change a lightbulb? 4 1 to drop the bulb and the other 3 to pick it up pick it up pick it up
Heard a great joke the other day... Q: How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? A: I'll let you know as soon as a good cop changes anything...
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many blind men does it take to change a lightbulb? They dont know either.
How many Canadians does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends on who you ask. You or I would probably say 1. We can change a lightbulb! OSHA would say minimum 2. 1 for changing the bulb & 1 for holding the ladder. Capitalists would burn the house down for insurance money & run.
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends on whether or not that lightbulb is connected to Wi-Fi.
How many trans ladies does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Bruuuces does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and the other to prove it aaaaaaaaaaaaallllll night it takes him 3-1/2 hours to change it, he does it slower than in his studio, but they all say it's the best lightbulb change of their lives
How many Monsignores does it take to change a lightbulb?
RADIO @/UniverseCity: how many miserable young people does it take to change a lightbulb. please, i am serious, i have been sitting in the dark for 2 weeks
Q: How many Canadians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Three. One to change the bulb, and two to say to each other, "You know that guy who changed the lightbulb? He's a Canadian."
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t get done... they are all trying to hide in the shadows. #StupidQuestionsForQAnon
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? 3: 1 to hold the bulb and 2 drink till the room starts to spin.
How many Latics directors does it take to change a lightbulb? None Mo says just keep the sun from setting.
How many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Christians does it take to change a lightbulb? 100 - one to hold the bulb, and 99 to rotate the room.
How many SpAds does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One... or two? One...or two?
there goes a funny joke How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
there goes a funny joke How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Also my flight is delayed due to the old adage “How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?” I don’t know, but approximately 60 minutes of paperwork. #southwest!!
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many kidnapped children does it take to change a lightbulb? More than 8, apparently, because it's still pitch black in my basement.
They had a stroke (or that's just their normal level of brain function) while typing "how many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're too busy changing their gender" transphobic joke
how many existentialists does it take to change a lightbulb? — Two! One to change the lightbulb, and one to observe how it symbolizes an incandescent beacon of subjectivity in a netherworld of cosmic nothingness. https://curiouscat.qa/docspencerreid/post/1142041367…
I didn't know you were THAT Tim too. Is your middle name Buck? How many Tims can one Tim be? How many Tims does it take to change a lightbulb? Up here in Canada, you are a coffee and a donut. Take a picture of the roofer. Call it Cat on a Hot Tim Roof. Definitely owe you now.
How many Jewish grandmothers does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . . . . . “It’s ok. I’ll sit in the dark.”
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many photographer’s does it take to change a lightbulb? 50, 1 to change the bulb and 49 to say 'I could've done that' #photography #joke
How many swords does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many car parades does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to WANT to change." Maybe it's the same with changing outfits?
How many Twices does it take to change a lightbulb? This isn't a joke it's a serious question it's DARK IN HERE
how many cats does it take to change a lightbulb
I don't do jokes. Except this one: How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We are efficient and we have no sense of humor.
How many DDS does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one I guess... but it doesn't really matter coz the bulb won't be bright anyway
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb?
I realized that police brutality exists from this joke "How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb" "None, they just beat the room for being black"
Q. How many Chief Scientific Officers does it take to change a lightbulb. A. They don't know. Nor do any of their (6) mates. But you must wear a mask to ask the question.* * This answer will self destruct in 5 seconds, as new information becomes available. Or not.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb ? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Don't be silly feminists can't change anything.
#Alexa JOTD: How many wizards does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends on what you want to change it into. Ugh Monday I can tell is gonna suck already. #Monday
How many Adam Curtis' does it take to change a lightbulb? One....but it wasn't always that way
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
False postcodes etc may help government to ignore the petition (reasonably) but what's the track record of petitions changing Tory government plans? How many signatures does it take to change a lightbulb the government doesn't want to change? Maybe if we all wish hard enough...
I copy and paste this.. How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many of these FOOLS does it take to change a lightbulb? So much double talk. This is the time they should show their loyalty to their constituents instead of being loyal to a FRAUD. The more I research y’all, the more I shake my head. REPULSIVE
how many renters does it take to change a lightbulb? none, because renters.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to...WANT to change
how many tweeps does it take to change a lightbulb? anyone except me i think
Q. How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Fish
Shelties are cute but I’m a Golden Retriever fan myself. Google the joke - “how many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many Leave voters does it take to change a lightbulb? One to remove the bulb and 17,410,741 to sit in the darkness and tell everyone else to get over themselves.
@StellaMoris1 How many anti Assange people does it take to change a lightbulb? None they prefer to stay in the dark.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb must want to change. #jokes
How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? They'll never get it done because they'll be arguing over who has it worse
How many psychiatrist does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hoarses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hoarses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
I must ask. How many Hoarses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Hoarses does it take to change a lightbulb?
Horse race There are two new blog posts: “Take those Amerikkkan flag pins off your lapels” “Voting for complicity” Gun nuttery How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb? — https://disunitedstates.com/2020/09/20/a-supreme-court-justice-dies-but-election/…
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many PORT does it take to change a lightbulb
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many police does it take to change a lightbulb..
How many general category students does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still use gaslighting.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many assholes in my office does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they are all incompetent fucks.
Today's #programming joke : How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? → None that's a hardware problem
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Their butler changes the lightbulb
how many tweets referencing 'it's the end of the world' by r.e.m does it take to change a lightbulb
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian, Baby
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
In California we use 'hella': How many Californians does it take to change a lightbulb? Hella.
Time for Keir Starmer jokes i.e. How many Keir Starmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Keir doesn't want to change the lightbulb, he just wants it to be better.
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s working and they all sit in the dark and applaud him.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, BUT the lightbulb has to want to change! If a mind is not accepting facts and wants to be closed, I don’t think there is much possible movement in that case
How many Victorian Police does it take to change a lightbulb just asking for a friend
How many police does it take to change a lightbulb
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows they just say. "Why can't the room be black you fascist"
both of my fog light bulbs, my side marker lamps, rear corner marker, and interior dome light bulbs are all out, too. how many josh’s does it take to change a lightbulb? more than one, possibly less than two.
How many swashbucklers does it take to change a lightbulb? I dont know but the only thing I can think of when I read your tweet!!!
How many sports writers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: one to change it, one to hold his/her bottle of wine. #writerslife #writerscommunity
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s working and they all sit in the dark and applaud him. Stolen from a Facebook friend.
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
Spoken like a true sodomite @michaelrkilburn How many bulls does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many poets does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but they have to aspire to the job.
Q. Whats blue & fluffy A. Blue fluff Q. Why was the Egyptian girl worried A. Her father was a mummy Q. How many Dubliners does it take to change a lightbulb A. 100 1 to hold the lightbulb and 99 to turn room Q. How do you get a Kerry person to go meow A. Tie them to car & drive
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Tory paedophiles does it take to change a lightbulb? #lifequestions #RuleOfSix
How many of Morrison's cabinet (including #ScottyFromMarketing himself) does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They're still using gaslighting. #auspol
How many Arnabs does it take to change a lightbulb? None. No Sanghi does any work by himself. #ArnabGoswami
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
There’s no reason why the “why did the chicken cross the road” joke should be so popular the “how many ___ does it take to change a lightbulb” setup is obviously superior in its versatility and concept whereas the chicken joke has like two punchlines and neither are funny
How many Asian Republican Congressmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? There aren’t any Asian Republicans in Congress.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
I would ask the White House Press Secretary how many dumb blondes does it take to change a lightbulb, but I already know the answer: not a single one because it's not in their job description. What is her purpose other than to just lie like pure #evil?
How many tinies does it take to change a lightbulb?...no, this isn’t a joke. This lightbulb has been out for days and I’m really struggling over here...
How many BBC Breakfast presenters does it take to change a lightbulb? Find out this & more.. after the news.. travel & weather where u are.
@BBC3CR how many snakes does it take to change a lightbulb Don’t be silly there nocturnal animals
How many Personal Trainers does it take to change a lightbulb? Only 1, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many Scottish Tory activists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fifty. One to change it, 49 to tweet about how good a deal they got.
How many trans activists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fifty. One to change it, 49 to tweet about what a hero they are.
Is this one of those “how many orange slugs does it take to change a lightbulb” questions?
How many trans activists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fifty. One to change it, 49 to tweet about what a hero they are.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
HOW MANY TRUMP SUPPORTERS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? I ain't changin no libtard lightbulb! You can't make me! We got this called FREEDOM! No your facts!
I much prefer asking why Revit insists the world be flat and only ~20 miles? The only logical conclusion I've been able to find rests in answering how many architects does it take to change a lightbulb? One. They just stand in place and let the world revolve around them.
How many Tory Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because Britain fought two world wars in darkness, and the people have spoken; we don't want the EU's fascist lightbulbs. God save the Queen, and look at those Spitfires go!
How many movie critics does it take to change a lightbulb? 11. One to change it and 10 to argue amongst themselves how good the original was.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. They sit in the dark and applaud what a great job DT did changing it.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? Thats not a lightbulb, do your research globetard
How many ESG standard setters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but let’s form a task force.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? They don't actually run out, it's just a way to get you to buy new lightbulbs
How many designers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fuck off, I'm not changing it.
How many managers does it take to change a lightbulb? Can you redecorate the room?
How many Mexican does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many #Pizzagaters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Three - but they must all all be Satanic Abusers! 'The true meaning of a thing always resides in its opposite'- Marabas @louisedickens87
How many Mumbos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it don't matter the power is out...
How many basement dwellers does it take to change a lightbulb... Who cares they live in the dark anyway..
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just insists that it’s fixed and they all sit in the dark applauding him.
how many neurodivergent teenage theorycels does it take to change a lightbulb (write a paper on Kantian epistemology)
How many trans activists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fifty. One to change it, 49 to tweet about what a hero they are.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
We did it! 300 followers holy crap that was insane. Here's the last joke as a thanks to all my new friends How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
And our final #askacurator question: Q: How many Curators does it take to change a lightbulb? (1/3)
How many white girls does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know but it’s an odd number because they just can’t, even.
Actors and guitar players tell the same old joke. Which is in the long run it detrimental to their personal growth."How many actors(guitar players) does it take to change a lightbulb" Answer:" One to change the light bulb, 20 others to stand around and say I can change it better"
You mean all the co-ops that closed down? Democrats are always doubling down on terrible ideas. How many insurers dropping out of exchanges does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many Marxists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "None. The bulb contains the seeds of its own revolution."
Q: How many Holocaust victims does it take to change a lightbulb? A: THAT'S NOT FUNNY!!!!!
#startrek joke Wednesday Q: How many Q does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Wouldn't you rather have a star shrunk down to pocket size and installed in its place?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dailydadjoke #dadjoke
How many choreographers does it take to change a lightbulb? One - but they keep changing it, and changing it, and CHANGING IT!!
The dictator is in over his head! How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? Non, because they keep passing the buck, it's always somebody else's job, this is what happens when you fill your government and bureaucracy with people who can't complete tasks.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t - they just pass the bulb to the mezzos, smirk, and say “Isn’t that a little high for you?”
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Everything you are blaming on BLM etc are really the trumps tools. How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many neighbors does it take to change a lightbulb...
How many Salvador Dalis does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in a ceiling fitting? . . . . . . It doesn't matter: they will always screw it up. @DocAtCDI
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to want to change xD #joke #joker #JokeOftheDay
how many feeties does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Steelers fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. They don’t change it, they just talk about how great the old bulb was.
How many genderfluid people does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The light bulb will change, by itself, on a regular basis, often making you question whether it ever needed changing at all
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb doesn't need to be changed -- it's perfect the way it is -- it's simply covered in dust that has always prevented people from seeing it and you've always been afraid to wipe away that dust.
Perhaps you’d like to step in where your pal couldn’t, and address his (as yet unsubstantiated) line of reasoning? I mean, how many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s looking like a depressingly relevant question at this stage.
Q. How many Sound Engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb?" "One, but they have to Dress Go Spinny until the lightbulb is secured."
How many Apple users does it take to change a lightbulb? None. When the bulb goes, they just replace the house.
How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?.......Fish!
Q: How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Don’t worry, they’ll tell you why lightbulbs are actually not vegan, ‘cause they contain, like, pig enzymes or additives made from lice, or something...
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
NFFC didn't come out of this too well, by the sound of it. Disability discrimination. Hope they get taken to court. Still how many Forest fans does it take to change a lightbulb? We'll never know, because they're all too dim to try.
How many brainwashed Scots Tory MPs does it take to change a lightbulb. None - because they dont have electric in caves @Scotland_future @Conservatives @YesGlasgow @YesHighland @YesWestLothian @YesWeCan_scot
How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Don’t worry, they’ll tell you.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb, I mean.....
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
Q: How many Doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 2 But the lightbulb must want to regenerate! #DoctorWho
Q: “How many blue-Marxists (= Cummings clones) does it take to change a lightbulb?” A: “There’s no point trying to change the light Blob. We need to smash it and replace it with a world-beating, techno-light that we shall deliver shortly (built entirely in the dark)”.
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s working and they all sit in the dark and applaud him.
Q, how many men does it take to change a lightbulb? A, just one, he holds the bulb up to the socket and waits for the world to revolve around him!
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many council workers does it take to change a lightbulb? Definitely more than the six that are allowed to be in one place at a time.
How many warrooms does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, but it takes 150 exiting family docs to create budget space for a warroom.
how many The Man does it take to change a lightbulb
LMAO "how many madisons does it take to change a lightbulb? 0 cuz she dont wanna"
How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? Nobody knows, they never get to keep the house!
How many council workers does it take to change a lightbulb? Definitely more than the six that are allowed to be in one place at a time.
how many Polacks does it take to change a lightbulb? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11 1 to hold the 10 to turn the house around https://CollinsDictionary.com/dictionary/engictionary/english/polack… @COLLINSdict.ionary https://www★CollinsDictionary★com:443/dictionary/english/polack scroll for version (below ) it is a JOKE!
How many council workers does it take to change a lightbulb? Definitely more than the six that are allowed to be in one place at a time.
How many Freddie Mercurys does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many beets does it take to change a lightbulb
Love your reply.I can't think of something in the masculine vane, but how about: how many dumb blondes does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it's not in their job description. Made that one up, sorry, I am in a rare mood today.
this raises the question: how many ID majors does it take to change a lightbulb?
Alternatively: Q: How many members of the GOP does it take to change a lightbulb. A: None. Trump just says it's fixed and the rest sit in the dark and applaud.
Q: How many members of the GOP does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they only use gaslight.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? As many as possible, one might actually do it.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Nats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many UKIP leaders does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to find the mains switch before getting suspended. Another to flip the switch before getting suspended. Another 2 find the ladder, before getting suspended. Another to open the ladder. Another to close the ladder ..
How many chickens does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Reminds me of an old lightbulb joke. Q. How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. One, but only if it wants to change. This person had a history of being criminally violent, and, in my opinion, was unlikely to respond to psychological de-escalation. Sad.
"How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They'd rather sit in the dark, and blame it on Trump!"
How many Bears fans does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them. One to change the bulb and the rest to tell us how great the bulb in 1985 was.
Proof that dark humor is semi funny How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesnt matter, they just beat the room for being black Takes abad thing and makes light of it, no pun intended
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #pun #dadjoke #funny
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the house anyway.
how many coonsil workers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many bots does it take to change a lightbulb?
@georgemelting What do you call a pool full of Mexicans? Bean dip. They say copper wire was invented when 2 Jewish men fought over a penny. (White+cop joke) How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? 1, the rest beat the room for being black. They're just jokes dude fr.
LMAO. Glad you said that so I can tell you my favorite joke. “How many Steelers fans does it take to change a lightbulb?” “None, they just sit around and talk about how great the old one was.”
there goes a funny joke How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Anglicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Change???
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Nicola Sturgeons does it take to change a lightbulb? - A: No one will ever know now that the Tories have pressured the BBC into no longer broadcasting Scotland's daily Health briefings during a Global Pandemic
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
how many Rachels does it take to change a lightbulb? one but it takes two hours cause she goes to lowes forgets her wallet goes back home then ends up at target cause its closer instead
On the lighter side... How many 16-year-olds does it take to change a lightbulb? Whatever.
How many top Scottish comedians does it take to change a lightbulb? Turns out it's just one @SusanCalman #SecretScotland
So. If your son develops symptoms of COVID-19, you visit the #coronavirus website to book a test, find no sites available to do tests anywhere in UK, no home tests, and you've been held in a queue on the phone over an hour, how many ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many gecs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Two. One to change it, and another one to change it back again. #gotjokes
At it's best, humor makes light of very dark things, that aren't normally talked about, and shows people how stupid said this actually is. Take for example: how many officers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they would just beat the dark room
Q. How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who wants to know? Am I being detained??
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? I dunno, but it was better before they changed it.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He tells them it’s been changed and they sit in the dark and applaud.
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Happy Birthday! Have a good one. Cheers! Techie PJ for you: Q: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. It’s a hardware problem.
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb ? None. Trump tells them it’s working and they all sit around in the dark and applaud him.
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump just announces that it's fixed, and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
Wow. Hey, Steve, how many of your followers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? Definitely more than one bc I was just launched across my room bc I thought it would be a good idea to balance on my broken spinny chair and then try to jump up so I could reach the ceiling
I have ADHD. Sometimes I laugh at the way my brain works. One of my favorite jokes is, "How many people with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Oh look, a bike!" I'm fine when friends are in on the joke. 7/
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? 0, feminists cant change anything.
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many #defi programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? @officialmcafee
How many snakes does it take to change a lightbulb? Fucking loads I imagine
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Joke for people who HAVE experienced psychiatric "treatment" Person: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Psychiatrist: You can sit in the dark all night if you like, it's all the same to me.
Joke for people who have never experienced psychiatric "treatment" Person: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Psychiatrist: One. But the bulb must WANT to change
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb. None they just beat the room for being black
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many librarians does it take to change a lightbulb? — I don’t know but I’ll look that up for you!
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven!
Question: How many Trump Administration members does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None. They want to keep us in the dark!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
This sounds like a classic argument in academia... "How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Change‽‽‽"
That ‘How many Englishmen does it take to change a lightbulb’ joke has held up well for this day and age.
How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb?????
how many cats does it take to change a lightbulb? :3 #nikooneshot #oneshotgame
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
how many lanzhan's does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many Flowers does it take to change a lightbulb? Asking until the roster turnover slows.
Here’s a joke I heard today. How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump just tells him that the light is fixed and they’ll sit in the dark and applaud.
So do reporters get thrown out of concerts? What is the stable genius hiding this time? Perhaps the rubbish claims about building auto plants everywhere,? How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They will never see the light.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him. #psychjokes #badjokes
How many streamers does it take to change a lightbulb? Why don't you follow and find out.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many @TimmusGG does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many Conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. They sit in the dark and blame Trudeau. #LPC #cdnpoli
How many scientists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to question why Coronavirus isn't killing more people in Africa.
Q: How Many Simps Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb? A: None, Because She Has A Boyfriend
How many capitalists does it take to change a lightbulb? #RuleOfSix
Q. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change. Trump's are in denial of the day to day reality of what's going on in the world.
Understand That folloers of "QAnons" Don’t Want to Be Saved. Q. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. “Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change
how many nsw coalition members does it take to change a lightbulb
Someone said, “How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just tells them it's fixed and they all sit in the dark and applaud.” - so accurate! #TrumpKnew #TrumpLiedPeopleDied
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
You seem to like puns. By extension I'm guessing you also like jokes. I'll give you a one. How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They're afraid of change-even if it makes the world a better place.
How many lwjs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? Communist!
How many anti-vaxxers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still think fire is the work of satan and ran away.
Speaking of his followers believing everything- How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump will tell them he changed it himself and the Republicans will all clap wildly in the dark.
How many subs does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but I made him stick the lightbulb in his ass
How many Ska Punk Bands does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . Two. One to accidentally drop it and then another to PICKITUP PICKITUP PICKITUP
How many psychos does it take to change a lightbulb? #AskKrieg
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to...WANT to change
#StarTrek joke Wednesday Q: How many Borg does it take to change a lightbulb? A: All of them.
How many Labour Party Graphic Designers does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them, comrade.
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to hold the lightbulb and 99 to turn the house around.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends. The lightbulb has to want to change.
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb?? Steven.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they use gaslighting
How many lousy Prime Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
How many womxn does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they can't, because there's no such thing
How many transphobes does It take to change a lightbulb? None. They’ll insist the light has always been out and that saying it has gone out is part of the light agenda to brainwash kids.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb...
Q: How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: No tomatoes. Visit the Spanish Citadel of Surrealism with the M2 Adventure Channel with Seiko. https://m2magazine.co.nz/the-spanish-citadel-of-surrealism…
Q: How many Trump's does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Mexico will change the bulb... as soon as they're done paying for the wall!
Found this joke on Reddit from a deleted user. How many How many developers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem. #Jokes #WebDev
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many woke XR libtards does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'd rather stay in the dark.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. Two to fire 12 shots at the light for being non-compliant and a third to call the electrician after.
I love nerdy jokes. :) My all-time fave remains... Q: How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: no
How many Boston College grads does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But he'll spend the entire time telling you how he did as well as a Harvard grad. That's how I feel using @Hubspot's CRM compared to @Salesforce #NotTheSame
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many parcels does it take to change a lightbulb? One coz they’re class
How many officials does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one - but after a few days they will change it back
how many longo does it take to change a lightbulb
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. It's not as difficult as some jokes make it out to be.
How many CA Dems does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
how many gons does it take to change a lightbulb
Here's a better one Q : how many remoaners does it take to change a lightbulb A : none, they like living in the dark
Q. How many Discogs sellers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Whatever number they've just randomly pulled out of their arse this week.
How many chiropractors does it take to change a lightbulb ? Only one - but it takes 15 visits.
How many conductors does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, plus 80 people who know exactly what they’re fucking doing
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb must want to be changed. Psychopaths will never acknowledge they have a PD because that would require a conscience & self-awareness.
Q: how many remainers does it take to change a lightbulb ? A: none, that's a job for a low paid migrant. #whosgonnachangeourlightbulbs ?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Liberal MPs does it take to change a lightbulb?
You may find that most of the government has similar profiles. “How many narcissistic sociopaths does it take to change a lightbulb?”..... Answer: 1, as long as the lightbulb does what it’s told, and obeys the rules, oh and wears a mask.
How many washed up musicians and actors does it take to change a lightbulb? @travistritt to hold the ladder and @realjameswoods to cry about how hot the lightbulb is and how Trump makes him so warm inside.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Many hands make light work. How many people does it take to change a lightbulb
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
how many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?... no really. Anyone knows???
Q: How many 14yr olds does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Your mum
Q. How many Anons does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Zero. The lightbulb does it itself.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
Yeah, then you can sit there whilst debating who gets the new #austerity Those in poverty......or How many centrists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! The lightbulb just needs to accept it’s fine as it is, keeping everyone in the dark!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many atheists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and another to video tape it so theists won't claim god did it.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many kittens DOES it take to change a lightbulb? I'm counting 4. I wonder where the other slackers are.
How many dyslectics does it take to change a lightbulb ? Steven.
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb ? One, but it takes along time and the bulb has to want to change
Perfect chance to make a “how many writers does it take to change a lightbulb” joke
How many Meisner students DOES it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Meisner students DOES it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Meisner students does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Meisner students does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many choir directors does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Nobody knows. Nobody’s ever looked at a choir director.
How many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they don't want to be enlightened
this is the cleanest real-world set up to "how many percussionists does it take to change a lightbulb" that I've ever seen
Q. how many performance artists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. ideally all of them because they're all electrocuted by the time you're done with them.
A "free press" walks into a bar ... Why did the "free press" cross the road? How many "free presses" does it take to change a lightbulb? Knock knock ... Who is there? ... "Free press" ... "Free press" who?
"how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "only one, but the lightbulb needs to want to change."
Forget the jokes about how many people does it take to change a lightbulb, how many cops does it take to take down a SINGLE protestor?
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven..
Top story: How Many Dogs Does it Take to Change a Lightbulb? | D for Dog https://dfordog.co.uk/blog/funny-dogs-change-lightbulb-joke.html…, see more http://tweetedtimes.com/QJournalOnline1?s=tnp…
How many Jesus Mythicists does it take to change a lightbulb? 3. One to twist the bulb around like he twists facts. One to deny the consensus that electricity works. One to claim that the light bulb is a mythical object based on the Greek sun god Helios. In the process,
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Idk I'll let you know as soon as a good cop changes anything
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How Many Dogs Does it Take to Change a Lightbulb? | D for Dog
How many Wheatleys does it take to change a lightbulb?
'Hiden' Joe Biden Rewrites History – Tells Wisconsin Audience That A Black Guy Invented The Lightbulb - Too bad that the guy didn't show Joe, how to turn the bulb on! BTW, how many Joe Bidens does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! He don't know what a lightbulb looks like!
Ooooh! I like that joke. How about this: Q. How many Donald Trumps does it take to Change a Lightbulb? A. One. But he can only change things by standing on the backs of others & claiming their accomplishments as his own. #JohnMcCain was a #Hero #DonaldTrump is a #Zero
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb must want to be changed. JUST STOP ! Quit lying. You know 45 is a psychopath. #NikkiIsWithoutConscience
Talking of German stereotypes, here's a joke told to me by my good (German) friend Maddy: Q. How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? A. 1 because we are efficient and have no sense of humour. großartig!
How many yeets does it take to change a lightbulb?
On the Lighter Side How many telemarketers does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but it has to be while you’re eating dinner.
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb. A: None. They'll all just sit around in the dark praising Trump for fixing it and blaming Obama for turning off the switch
How many homophobes does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? 6-10% fewer than there were in 2016.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? We may never know...
YIMBetarians. How many YIMBYS does it take to change a lightbulb? "We need new, market-rate lamps!"
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? One and they don’t even have to screw it in. They just hold it still and the whole world revolves around them!
How many RadFems does it take to change a lightbulb? None! It's still a fucking lightbulb ;)
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but the lightbulb has to want to change.
@JoeBiden How many democRATs does it take to change a lightbulb? 0 because they like the dark so they can LOOT, RIOT, AND MURDER PEOPLE!#Trump2020 #BLMAntifaTerroristsThugs #NBA #Biden #espn #cameltoeharris
@lincolnproject How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE, Trump just says it's fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One, They are efficient and don't have humour.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. They’re efficient and not very funny
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t change anything, just talk about it. How many democrats does it take to ruin a city? One and then blame it all on President Trump.
Bloody Bi’s . How many Bi’s does it take to change a lightbulb? They have to decide whether they want a bayonet or a screw type before they change it.
How many immature teenagers does it take to change a lightbulb? 69 *snickers*
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many 14yr old boys does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Your mum
Q. How many grammar nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Too
How many penguins does it take to change a lightbulb? Irrelevant, the lack of opposable thumbs means a penguin can't install a light bulb in the first place. #penguinjokes
How many ********* engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? A whole team: “and we’re really excited because we have this entire carton of burned-out lightbulbs to try!”
How many Liberals does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many con-artists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many analytic theologians does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . Define "take." And "change." And "lightbulb." Seriously, I kid. I love AT.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #RandomJokesIO #randomJokes
How many Goths does it take to change a lightbulb? None; they like sitting in the dark.
How many sergals does it take to change a lightbulb No one knows, no matter how many there are, they can't because they are too stupid
How many @JoeBiden does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the lightbulb is fine. It’s a power cut, welcome back to pre EEC UK.
Also, sorry I have a really bad joke for you. How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? I'll tell you as soon as a good cop changes anything. If the gears are clashing, they are gonna continue to clash even if you replace one for a good, undamaged gear.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Their butler changes the lightbulb
Q. How many rabbis does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Rabbi Hillel says four. But Rabbi Akiba says five. Which reminds me of a story...
How many middle aged to elderly comedians does it take to change a lightbulb? 100 One to actually do it and the other 99 to complain about how the PC brigade won't let them.
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the family home anyway.
I absolutely love the methodist version. How many methodists does it take to change a lightbulb? - Unknown. No matter if your light is bright, dim or completely turned off, you are loved. You can be a lightbulb, a lightapple, a lightpear, a firefly if you want to.
How many Teamsters does it take to change a lightbulb?... 10... (what, you gotta problem wit dat?)
You see that is not nearly as funny as "How many welshmen does it take to change a lightbulb?" answer "13. One to change the bulb, and 12 to sing a lament about how wonderful the old bulb was". That is cheery, yours is grim
Q) How many tory ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? A) 2: One to call the servants & the other to pass the port. #rightwingjokes
He's probably too busy working on his new comedy routine for the BBC. "How many immigrants does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Because I would rather sit in the dark than let 'em on our shores." #rightwingcomedy
How many Conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They're afraid of change - even if it makes the world a brighter place.
How many Black people does it take to change a lightbulb? Just the one, but when they're halfway done, some bastard kicks away the ladder.
Minefield. (Not saying we shouldn't send the bomb squad in.) A pillar of the radical women's movement in the 70s and 80s once said this in response to a question about PC humour: "How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. And it's NOT funny."
Try this one on the kid: "How many babysitters does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Just the one, but they may have trouble finding diapers small enough."
How many #Pedos does it take to change a lightbulb?
As a chorister, my favourite was always: How many altos does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten. One to change the lightbulb, and the rest to claim that they would have done it but it was just a little bit high for them.
This well-known lightbulb joke will likely be too subtle for the young 'un: Q: How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just one, but the light bulb has to sincerely WANT to change.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? THAT'S NOT FUNNY
How many shadow people does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They are all still using gaslighting. #TrumpStrokes #TrumpIsNotWell #25thAmendmentNow
How many government employees does it take to change a lightbulb? 30. 1 to unscrew it and the other 29 to form a committee or sub-committees and prepare a manual to give him with the wrong information. #justsayin
Lol! My favorite! How many Episcopalians does it take to change a lightbulb? 10. One to call the sexton to change it. One to pour the wine. 8 to discuss how much better the old lightbulb was.
How many twats with noisy exhausts does it take to change a lightbulb? CUNT.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Trumpublicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many rock stars does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: one to hold the bulb. The other to drink until the room spins round.
On this weeks podcast we discuss: Where does Donny van de Beek fit into the Manchester United team What is going to happen with Messi, Manchester City and Barcelona How many podcasters does it take to change a lightbulb #MUFC #MCFC #fcb
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many centralists does it take to change a lightbulb none it'll be too radical to change
Q. How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Just one. He stands, holds on to the bulb and the world revolves around him.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb ? penguins #penguinjokes
That's not funny. That's the punchline to: "How many #feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?" which I think is very funny. Too bad I'm unfit to lead, huh? Thanks for the smile.
tell me your best “change a lightbulb” jokes... like “how many _____ does it take to change a lightbulb?”
“How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has really got to want to change.” This joke reminds me of the viability of online learning. All involved must “want” it to work. Agree or Disagree?
Right wing jokes: Do you know what I hate about poor people? (Pause for timing) Everything! How about those homeless people? (Pause for timing) Homeless? More like hopeless! Amirite? How many fascists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! They just force prisoners to do it
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many lying racists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. "Nobody knows changing lightbulbs better than me. I know screws. I know bayonets. I know more about changing lightbulbs than any human being on earth. I'm the king of changing lightbulbs." #TrumpIsNotWell
How many EU bureaucrats does it take to change a lightbulb? 1000. 1 to change the light and 999 to ensure the bulb conforms to Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/1428 of 25 August 2015 with regard to ecodesign requirements for non-directional household lamps #RightWingJokes
Situations in the U.S. are likely to spawn a lot of jokes, of the how many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb variety in the future. For now it all just too grave.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
how many college boys does it take to change a lightbulb? the answer is none, they use their phone flashlights for that room for three months until one of them gets a girlfriend and she fixes it
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: none, they leave it for their children to take care of it.
How many Boris Johnson supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? 0 - Boris tells them he's changed it and they all sit in the dark saying "Best lightbulb change ever". #RightWingJokes
How many people on benefits, disabled people, single parents or workers on a low wage does it take to change a lightbulb? Shit, they can afford lightbulbs? #RightWingJokes
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? MH -we will change the lightbulb. Some time later , MH - the lightbulb isn’t good for the UK we have formed a dept run by mates & used your money to invest our world beating lightbulb. Later..candles are good #UKGovisajoke
How many landlords does it take to change a lightbulb? Ha ha, why would I change a lightbulb for you when you can rent one from me for double its value and do all the work of changing it yourself? #RightWingJokes
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? 6, wait that’s way more than the other parties ...3, wait still too many. Figure is no longer available, no way can it be calculated. No way to compare figures ... #UKGovisajoke
How many Union members does it take to change a lightbulb #RightWingJokes
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many Learning Technologists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Ok, I say I say I say, how many union officials does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change it and another one to come and change it back without a ballot! #RightWingJokes
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many tory government enabling socialists does it take to change a lightbulb in 2020? None, they are all still stuck in 2019.
Right wing comedy: "How many immigrants does it take to change a lightbulb? None. None at all. Get off my property *sits in dark*"
"How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "They wouldn't have electricity - I mean look at Venezuela etc etc" #RightWingJokes
How many government ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. It was the EU’s fault. #RightWingJokes
How many Boris Johnson supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? 0 - Johnson claims he changed it and they all sit in the dark saying 'best lightbulb ever'. #RightWingJokes
Q. How many Tory MPs does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Only plebs change lightbulbs. #RightWingJokes
"How many unimaginative politicians does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Change?!?!?" We can do so much better. The Climate and Ecological Emergency Bill @CEEbill_NOW would unlock a revolution of the imagination. Tell your MP to support it:
Q: How many right-wingers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. We're too busy winning elections to bother with that shit. #RightWingJokes
How many right wing politicians does it take to change a lightbulb None They’d prefer we were all in the dark #RightWingJokes
Q: How many Remianers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: You lost, get over it #RightWingJokes
How many Englishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because the poles have come over here and nicked all our lightbulb changing jobs #RightWingJokes
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? #RightWingJokes
Let's see... How many Donald Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One. He stands there holding the lightbulb as the world revolves around him. Well, that would be the answer you get off you ask him. #DumpTrump2020
#RightWingJokes How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just blame the person who put the bulb in.
How many Metropolitan Liberal Elites does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Their thoughtful adoption of low-energy LED units means they're more likely to move house before any fail. Easy.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? Not all of them, okay. Not all of them. #RightWingJokes
How many gammons does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they fear change.
"How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb?" "None. There are more opportunities in the dark" #RightWingJokes
Q: How many Gavin Williamsons does it take to change a lightbulb? A: It depends how well they all did in the trial run. No, f@%& it, you decide!
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That's a man's job, go make me a sandwich. #RightWingJokes
And they'll STILL get more done than the Tories. Q: How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? A: DARKNESS IS ALL YOU MONGRELS DESERVE. IT'S A SHAME WE CAN'T ABOLISH THE SUN, IT'S MAKING YOU LAZY.
#RightWingJokes how many tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None. they just declare darkness the national standard.
#RightWingJokes How many right-wingers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they hate change.
How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? Lols, you lot think you're going have electricity after no-deal?!? #RightWingJokes
How many rightwingers does it take to change a lightbulb? That depends on whether it is a God-fearing incandescent lightbulb, or one of those foreign muck energy saving LED lightbulbs that the EU bureaucrats are trying to foist on the UK. #RightWingJokes
#RightWingJokes How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just sit in the dark and blame the tories
How many Tory gammons does it take to change a lightbulb? Change? None of that, thanks. #RightWingJokes
There's a great joke that my mother and I, old-school feminists and civil libertarians both, loved to tell because it shocked friends who expected otherwise from us: "How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?" Answer: "That's not funny!"
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? - Whoa, hang on a minute! Who said anything about a lightbulb? Brexit: Boris Johnson signals no-deal increasingly likely and hits out at EU for refusing to compromise | The Independent
How many Librarians does it take to change a lightbulb? 645.5
Ok here goes: "How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "ONE! AND WHAT'S SO BLOODY FUNNY?"
Q: How many teachers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None - ask the caretaker Q: How many caretakers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Do it yourself. (Controversial )
How many Trump family members does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. They have the Russian mafia take care of it when they come over to replace the batteries on the hidden mics and cameras.
How many right-wingers does it take to change a lightbulb? “You just can’t get the staff.” #RightWingJokes
how many pussypackers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many immigrants does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because it's British jobs for British workers. #RightWingJokes
Q. How many right-wing comedians does it take to change a lightbulb? A. People on benefits should be made to change them. #rightwingcomedy
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Q: How many woke lefties does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? We want the proper ones back! Climate change is just a mad conspiracy theory and those awful new so-called 'bulbs' don't do justice to the whip marks on my servants' backs. #RightWingJokes
"How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?" "I don't care as long as it's not one of those energy efficient ones. Back off, EU" #RightWingJokes
How about: "How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t change lightbulbs. They just remove them because lightbulbs work better once disconnected"
How many capitalists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they sit in the dark & wait for the invisible hand to do it... They charge us for advance light access tickets. After 5yrs government intervenes & installs a bulb which the capitalists turn off to maintain demand.
Alternative version: How many Conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? None ... we've outsourced changing lightbulbs to some of Dominic Cummings' mates for a £90 million contract without due tendering process ... hahaha - we're not responsible for lightbulbs anymore!
#RightWingJokes How many Conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? "CHANGE?????"
#RightWingJokes How many woke liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because changing lightbulbs require common sense
I'm not sure what right-wing comedy is but I'm imagining Nigel Farage asking a confused audience "How many immigrants does it take to change a lightbulb?"
I STAND READY TO SERVE. HAVE YOU HEARD MY LIGHTBULB JOKE? YOU WILL BE AMUSED. - HOW MANY ALDERAANIANS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? - NONE. THE LUMEN OUTPUT OF THE DESTROYED PLANET IS 1.0X10(10) RENDERING THE LIGHTBULB UNNECESSARY.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb ? • None they’ll arrest the bulb for being broke and bit it up the room cuz it’s black
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? ...Change? That’s socialism.
How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb
Q: How many Borg does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Obviously there is no incandescent lighting in the collective. Resistance is futile.
So...how many Claudias DOES It take to change a lightbulb? :P
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? None! That’s my husband’s job! I am making sandwiches for him in the dark. I am also a right wing comedian @bbccomedy please book me.
Fuck it, I'll have a try. "How many Keir Starmers does it take to change a lightbulb" "None, he gets the stable boy from his mum's donkey sanctuary to do it".
How many developers does it take to change a lightbulb? None - that's a hardware problem.
How many frogs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Do your own research.
How many Alzheimers patients does it take to change a lightbulb? To get to the other side
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb??
yeah!! how many gays does it take to change a lightbulb? two. the answer is two.
How many Tibbs does it take to change a lightbulb.
- How many translators does it take to change a #lightbulb? - It depends on the context! https://axendatranslations.com #axenda #LSP #translation #translationservices #translationagency #whyaxenda #whyus #translating #translationagency #getresults #wecanhelp #wesupport #hireus #funday
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb? One... Okay, just one more... Maybe a third to be social...May as well make it a few more now I've missed the last bus..
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? We may never know...
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Hahahaa. That's my favorite. The first time I heard that I.laughed so hard it looked like I was crying. How many dumbasses does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, their butler changes it.
I need a gif so I can make a "how many bangtan does it take to change a lightbulb" joke
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb? One... Okay, just one more... Maybe a third to be social...May as well make it a few more now I've missed the last bus..
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb? One... Okay, just one more... Maybe a third to be social...May as well make it a few more now I've missed the last bus..
How many mechanics does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he's going to have to remove the socket, re-route the cables, install a generator, it's going to cost you about 2 grand.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Uni bosses does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just stand there and the world revolves around them.
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. A lightbulb is a hardware problem.
How many security engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Way back, I was lucky enough to take part in a program based on Socratic dialogue at St. John’s College. They called us “Johnnies” and we had a joke: “Q: How many Johnnies does it take to change a lightbulb? A: What do you mean ‘change?’”
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb? https://youtube.com/watch?v=0zI56bel1fM… Two. And about 9 lightbulbs.
How many Joe biden's does it take to change a lightbulb? Stack spaghetti sauce in the supermarket
Q: How many members of the Trump administration does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They only use gaslight.
How many 14 year old girls does it take to change a lightbulb? What are you insinuating constable? It's a perfectly innocent reason why they were all in my bedroom.
Q: How many micro services does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 404
In the meantime please feel free to workshop your “how many ... does it take to change a lightbulb” jokes
How many leftists does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: one to actually do the fucking job, two to tell everyone how they would do it better whilst doing nothing, and two to argue that they should have used a different bulb
how many leftists does it take to change a lightbulb? 40. 1 to change the lightbulb and 39 to decry how the way the lightbulb was changed is symbolic of all the left's fundamental failings in reaching an enlightened working class
Isu: how many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Hatz: How many? Isu: Isu: Juan
@Energex How many tools does it take to change a lightbulb? It takes countless staff to lie to consumers and ignore public supplied information and 3 whole hours to isolate an issue on a SCADA network which can remotely identify the location and cause of faults. #EpicFail
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many speedway fans does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to change it and 1000 others to moan about the changes
I heard a good one the other day; How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they have their butlers do it.
How many LinkedIn users does it take to change a lightbulb? 6. 1 who eventually changes the bulb after conducting a focus group whilst the other 5 start a discussion about various implementation strategies & forms of best practice for light bulb adjustments going forward.
“How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. But the lightbulb has to want to change.”
How many Hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s an obscure number, you probably haven’t heard it.
How many police does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat the room for being black.
What’s the punchline? How many DMs does it take to change a lightbulb? #dnd #DungeonMaster #ttrpg
@CityOfGangsters I have a question... How many gangsters does it take to change a lightbulb?
I also believe that they feel they aren’t being lied to. I see this joke circulating: how many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Donald tells them it’s fixed and they all just sit there in the dark.
have a joke you might appreciate: “How many members of the Socialist Workers’ Party does it take to change a lightbulb?” “About a million. One out, all out.”
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Twitter users does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to do it and several hundred to complain that it's bindun because Bobby Davro also changed a lightbulb in his ITV comedy special in 1987
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? -None. They're all too busy on social media, denying the existence of the lightbulb.
How many Vietnam vets does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to throw away the perfectly good lightbulb. One to work on a trade deal with the Faroe islands for a replacement candle.
How many Ethiopians does it take to change a lightbulb? 100, one to change the bulb and 99 to fight over who gets to eat the packaging!
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many Will Muschamps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Love your wife are your lights on? How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
how many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they just beat the room for being black
how many emergency preparedness dicks does it take to change a lightbulb? a gremillion
Reminds me of one of the deepest jokes I've ever heard. Q: How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one but the lightbulb has to really *want* to change.
How many Hibs does it take to change a lightbulb? Too many. Trust me.
How many service designers does it take to change a lightbulb? Couldn't tell you until we're sure that changing a lightbulb is the right problem to solve. Here's our attempt at a 'serious' chat on problem-solving @phildearson + @kidcamel of @createfutureuk
Hey Sid, hope all is well. Here's my take. Common sense agrees. A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still! How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to WANT to change, and we are all light bulbs.
joke 1: (parte de un meme que vi alguna vez) "de qué te sirve ir al gym si eso no te va a quitar la cara de inca" [imagen de persona indígena bien fuertota] joke 2: How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? any of them, they just beat the room for being black
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb. Zero because they would arrest the bulb for being broke and beat the room for being black.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many socialist Jews does it take to change a lightbulb? "That's a creepy, racist, unfunny joke!"
How many NBA players does it take to change a lightbulb? We'll soon find out #JobSearch
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many based magamilfs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many good cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Dunno, but I'll let you know when a good cop changes anything #RemoveTrumpNow #VoteBidenHarrisToSaveAmerica
–How many moms does it take to change a lightbulb? –I don't know –None! 'Cause they get you to do it, sucker!
Q. How many Moniques does it take to change a lightbulb? A. 1 - but only if she can be f*cking bothered!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
the saying “how many so and so’s does it take to change a lightbulb” had to be about short people because changing a ceiling light is hard when you’re 5’1
How many WNBA fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Both of them
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Q: How many baptists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Change?!
How many people who demand to be enlightened does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They prefer to stay in the dark. @MerlinPsychSage
there goes a funny joke How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many agents does it take to change a lightbulb erm I mean a goalkeeper?
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to want to change!
Kefirah! But never expected anything else. Q: how many dayanim does it take to change a lightbulb? A: CHANGE?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to throw away the perfectly good lightbulb. One to work on a deal with Kazakhstan for a replacement candle.
I wasn’t trying to be funny Karen. If I was I’d say something like, “how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only 1, but the lightbulb has to WANT to change.” Also asinine is a funny word because it has ass in it.
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to throw away the perfectly good lightbulb. One to work on a deal with Kazakhstan for a replacement candle.
How many sticks does It take to change a lightbulb?
Dark humour is taking the light out of a dark situation (hence the name) like police brutality, saying something like, how many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat the room for being black.
How many narcissist does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They use gaslighting
#AtoZQuiz How many Folk singers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? They don't. They arrest the bulb for being broke and beat the room for being black.
:) How many editors does it take to change a lightbulb? Too. #editor #editing #writer #writing #writers #englishmajor
Well don't leave us hanging. How many rhetoric professors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Grammar Police does it take to change a Lightbulb ? Too
Your wish is very kind. Sadly, individuals w/personality disorders seldom seek help. Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb must want to change. Read “Without Conscience” by Robert Hare, PhD.
that thing that's like how many people does it take to change a lightbulb but it's how many gays does it take to set up LED mood lighting
Wow, how many does it take to change a lightbulb and all that....
How many republicans in the senate does it take to change a lightbulb?None! Trump said he fixed it and they sitvin the dark and applaud!
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many lgbt does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 because I am short and needed Cassie to change them.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
how many jackbooted army colonels does it take to change a lightbulb lets spend 1/3 of GDP on that
How many Doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? None. It turns out it wasn’t a lightbulb at all. It was actually an alien in disguise.
Q: How many overly literal people does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Change it into what?
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The lightbulb has to want to change. They will not change. The inbreeding is deep.
How many backwoods smokers does it take to change a lightbulb?? Trick question backwoods smokers don’t know how to use lights
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb none Trump tells them it’s not broken and they sit in the dark
- How many photographers does it take to change a lightbulb? - Ten. One to replace the bulb & nine to sit around talking about how they could have done it better.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the family home in any case.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but they have to go through an entire box of bulbs before they find the right one.
I absolutely love that. But then I have a very strange sense of humor. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb
How many trump supporters, does it take to Change a Lightbulb? None. Donald told them, Its Fixed. They all sat in the Dark and cheered....
Q) How many Briskers does it take to change a lightbulb? A) There are Tzvei dinim
@GavinWilliamson How many Tory Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?They wouldn't; they'd contract the job out, to a company they have considerable interest in and charge the public a couple of million for privilege, bankrupt the company then bail it out with public money
@michaelgove How many Tory Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?They wouldn't; they'd contract the job out, to a company they have considerable interest in and charge the public a couple of million for privilege, bankrupt the company then bail it out with public money
@JamesCleverly How many Tory Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?They wouldn't; they'd contract the job out, to a company they have considerable interest in and charge the public a couple of million for privilege, bankrupt the company then bail it out with public money
@NicolaSturgeon How many Tory Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?They wouldn't; they'd contract the job out, to a company they have considerable interest in and charge the public a couple of million for privilege, bankrupt the company then bail it out with public money
@sajidjavid How many Tory Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?They wouldn't; they'd contract the job out, to a company they have considerable interest in and charge the public a couple of million for privilege, bankrupt the company then bail it out with public money
@Jacob_Rees_Mogg How many Tory Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?They wouldn't; they'd contract the job out, to a company they have considerable interest in and charge the public a couple of million for privilege, bankrupt the company then bail it out with public money
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one - but the lightbulb must really *want* to change.
how many blind men does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many comedians does it take to change a lightbulb? 87. One to change the lightbulb, and the other 86 to slag off Donald Trump.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
If you vote for tRump your a total fool! Hey want to hear a joke? How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
- #GamerMeme courtesy of http://REVMC.NET! - Q: How many #silvers does it take to change a #lightbulb? A: None, they can't even climb the #ladder! #GAMING #NOOBS #NEWBS #OVER9000 #GAMERS #GamersRock #FUNNY #awesome #gamer #gaming #lol #nerd #gfuel #game #meme #dank
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? 3 One to hold it and @LDNFootbalI to flip flop about which position to take
Q: How many anc deployed cadres does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Depends on the value of the tender.
Q: How many deployed cadres does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Depends on the value of the tender.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many knightofgames does it take to change a lightbulb — 4. 1 never got out of bed, 1 said he was going to do it but didn’t, 1 got distracted, and the 4th one did it
How many Brits does it take to change a lightbulb?
Haha - reminds me of "how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 1 but the bulb must really want to change.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them just sit in the dark and applaud !
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb...or screw up a convention?
how many soundcloud rappers does it take to change a lightbulb
Derp derp derp. How many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they use gaslighting. #Gaslighting #theysayyourethesmartone #witintelligencecharmofaturnip #turnipboy
How many wildcards does it take to change a lightbulb
How many ancaps does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just wait for the free marketplace of ideas to change things.
Q: How many kids with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb? A: WANNA GO RIDE BIKES?
How many geckos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Mills-sociologists does it take to change a lightbulb? What a stupid question, all they can change is the title and vocabulary of their redundant research
Hey, how many cowgirls fans does it take to change a lightbulb?
Me : How many radical leftist does it take to change a lightbulb? Radical leftist : THATS NOT FUNNY!!!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. It's a hardware problem. #BigNerdRanch
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: one to screw in the bulb and one to hold the cock. I mean father! I mean LADDER!
How many far left cranks does it take to change a lightbulb? Changing the lightbulb is all part of Israel’s plan.
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . None, that’s a hardware issue!
How many Daleks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many millennials does it take to change a lightbulb for the first time? One. It me. I feel so Adult™
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Do not laugh series: Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the house anyway.
How many #Openreach engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? A lot, I suspect. FIVE vans plus engineers taking nearly 4 hours to replace one cable between 2 poles today. One guy up the pole, the rest watching. Nice monopoly if you can get it. YOU are paying for the waste.
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump just says it's fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None! They sit in the dark, smoking their cigars and discuss legislation that WILL BAN LED BULBS!
... and a LOT of people will lose their jobs. If a company is working w/ McKinsey, it can only mean one thing: they are in trouble #slashandburn. How many McKinsey Consultants does it take to change a lightbulb?
Reminds me of the joke: How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb...? FORE!! Ahem, anyway, PGA Tour 2k21 is out today! Swing by our store to pick up your copy, and find out if you're up to par
How many Ministers for Agriculture does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Pakistanis does it take to change a lightbulb? Nobody knows. They're all too busy denying that they ever used the old one!
How many Uimama does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! The butler changes the light bulb.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hair stylists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ans: THAT’S not the f@%king question you should be asking me, now is it, sumbitches?!?!
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
“How many Trump family members does it take to change a lightbulb?” isn’t even the setup for a joke. I’m genuinely curious!
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None! They sit in the dark, smoking their cigars and discuss about legislation that WILL BAN LED BULBS!
How many GIFs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? 3 Because they're so stupid (and racist)
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they beat the bulb for being broke and then the room for being black. How many white people required to change a lightbulb? All of them, one to hold the bulb and the rest to screw the world
how many dead babies does it take to change a lightbulb ???i already have 15 but my basement is still dark
How many middle-management types does it take to change a lightbulb? Unfortunately, they’re all attending a webinar covering optimum lightbulb-changing procedures and the delegation thereof.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change. Kdo nám to přeloží?
Q. How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Republicans only change things that Democrats have already fixed. #TrumpBreaksStuff
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many of the mail-in-voting-protestors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? Stephen Donnelly: Did you know there’s an average of 82 shark attacks per year in the world and yet there was only 2 fatal electrocutions of people in swimming pools in 2015? That sends a clear message to the lightbulb.
$10 for the funniest punchline! How many ABC devs does it take to change a lightbulb? - FreeTrade
Q: How many Super Saiyans does it take to change a lightbulb? https://haha.cafe/q-how-many-super-saiyans-does-it-take-to-change-a-lightbulb/… #Joke #Haha #Funny #HahaCafe
How many children does it take to change a lightbulb? Gotta be more than 8 because my basement is still dark.
:) How many editors does it take to change a lightbulb? Too. #editor #editing #writer #writing #writers #englishmajor
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many country and western singers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb. The other to write a song about the old one.
How many united fans does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t they just stand around talking about how great the old one was
HOW ABOUT SOME HUMOR? How many #actuaries does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: Three, one to change it and the other to confuse the issue. Yes, there are lots of jokes about #actuaries. If you think you've seen them all, here's nearly 200 of them. https://actuarialjokes.com
I would stick to playing chess with pigeons if I were you. Muted. PS how many pigeons does it take to change a lightbulb!
How many (clarinet | sax) players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he has to go through a whole box of bulbs.
How many Irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Two apparently.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many tories does it take to change a lightbulb?
These tweets about @AOC and Bernie call for a “how many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb” joke. Don’t confuse my anti-racism, and anti-sexism as endorsement of the Democratic Party agenda.
How many Murdos does it take to change a lightbulb? 1690.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb?
Agree , But as you know how many council workers does it Take to change a lightbulb. ?
How many #MrMasonMills accounts does it take to change a lightbulb?
Hence the old joke How many SNats does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They would rather sit and complain about the dark.
how many starving Ukranians/Chinese does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? One to break it during autoerotic asphyxiation, another to take over the tungsten mine and steal all the profits, and 50 to tell you the light is actually on but using a graph only they can see because it’s dark your end.
how many wokesters does it take to change a lightbulb? not funny.
there are plenty of racist jokes way funnier. “How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb?” “idk” “none. they beat the room because it’s black” “thats not funny” “oh ok.”
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many cactus does it take to change a lightbulb?
Just thinking about that old joke, how many ppl does it take to change a lightbulb? Then applying it to our PM, he appears to need loads of ppl because he is wholly inept, completely out of his depth, loves the PM title and but not prepared to do the work #SackThePMAndCummings
WG6 SPOTLIGHT ON ALANNA GRACE Q: How many beautiful girls like Alanna does it take to change a lightbulb? A: REALLY??? You'd make HER do THAT??? @Alanna__Grace
How many Jedi does it take to change a lightbulb? Obi-wan
How many @hrw directors does it take to change a lightbulb? - As many as Qatar will pay for.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
how many cucks does it take to change a lightbulb? just one and after changing it he watches the stud next door anally abuse his wife
How many tories does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Jewish Mothers does it take to change a lightbulb? “Don’t you worry, I’ll just sit here in the dark, dear” via @EllieLevi13 through the painful medium of experience today, I fear.
How many dewotts does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Jewish Mothers does it take to change a lightbulb? “Don’t you worry, I’ll just sit here in the dark!” #JewishJokeOfTheDay
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
how many mechanics does it take to change a lightbulb 1, how dumb do you think he is?
Q) how many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? A) One, they just hold the lightbulb and the WHOLE world revolves around them.
How many g4s staff does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Plus 4 police officer and a few squaddies. My favourite g4s joke from the Olympics.
In thinking about apologies — and especially apologies from abusers — for a while now, my stance has shifted from “apologies are very simple!” to “apologies are inordinately complex!” and it all comes down to that “how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb?” joke.
How many Grammer Police does it take to change a Lightbulb ? Too
How many Test and Tracers does it take to change a lightbulb?.....6000 too many, and they still can’t find the lightbulb...
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many life coaches does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb must want to change.
How many Grammar Police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too!
How many PR people does it take to change a lightbulb? - https://bit.ly/RTLeftBrainRightBrain32… A ‘Jack or Jill of all trades’ who is ‘master of a few’ will be hugely in demand & will emerge as a valuable talent pool, opines Nikhil Dey in his #RTColumn #LeftBrainRightBrain.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? They don't. They arrest the bulb for being broke & beat the room for being black observer effect states your position on an issue your reaction to the joke will change Rep: not all cops are bad Dem: don’t joke about our struggle
How many Government ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? U turn it first.
Hey Bob, how many atheists does it take to change a lightbulb? None , it will change itself but it takes a really really REALLY long time.
"How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, their butler will do it" - @idlesband
It reminds me of a joke told by a prof I know a few years ago Q: How many archaeology students does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they get daddy to buy them a new flat. (the OP's a Grauniad columnist so is almost certainly talking bollocks)
How many clowns does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many sorority girls does it take to change a lightbulb
how many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb
James Woods, keep you acting job. How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: A fish
I really should have read behind the post how many German Doctors does it take to change a Lightbulb? what the heck did you do this time? Honestly defending and analysis and numbers stats chase the case and what Jack Ma money gets squandered so corruption can prevail
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? None they just beat the room for being black. You all for dark humour now or are you just saying you like dark humour for a shitty counter argument.
tw death how many aborted fetuses does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Navajo does it take to change a lightbulb in an oven? 2 My lady & No doubt her mother......
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
No semester of Feminist Philosophy was complete without at least 1 telling of 1 of this #joke: Q: How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That's not funny. #JauntyIrony
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. 1 to put the lightbulbs in a bathtub and another to hold the giraffe #NationalJokeDay
#NationalJokeDay How many film producers does it take to change a lightbulb? Does it have to be a lightbulb?
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only 1 but the lighbulb has to change
@altontowers how many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Lol
How many Folk singers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many celebrities does it take to change a lightbulb? DoJ Official: First of all, the lightbulb does not need changing. Maybe a tweak, but that’s it. And to be clear, we have a team monitoring these so-called celebrities and their sinister change agenda.
How many editors does it take to change a lightbulb? Have you explored the possibilities of its being something slightly more accessible than a lightbulb? #TellAJokeDay
Q: How many MOBSTERS does it take to change a lightbulb? A : Three. One to change the bulb. One to watch and one to shoot the witness. Listening to @CoastToCoastam with @G_Knapp tonight I have been researching MOB jokes
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change. #ThePretender
How many $oro$trolls does it take to change a lightbulb? Just you.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
tw death how many dead babies does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Heisenbergs does it take to change a lightbulb? You can’t know BOTH the number and the exact one that needs changing.
How many radio astronomers does it take to change a lightbulb? “We’re not really into that short wave stuff.”
how many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? one, or two?
There’s a “How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb” joke somewhere in here... They’re an absolute disgrace
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many graduate students does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but it takes her eight years.
How many dancers does it take to change a lightbulb?....5,6,7,8
how many kids does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb... haha. Classmates and I have spoken about mandatory yearly therapy sessions and mental health days off in medical school. Imho making something mandatory can create resentment even if it’s well intended. Perhaps opt-out?
How many Magats does it take to change a lightbulb? trick question: they don't change anything that might be considered an improvement.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
Happy #Caturday #CatsOfTwitter! #AdoptDontShop #catlife How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
@ejrainfordbrent (Old joke) How many test match fans does it take to change a lightbulb? "Change???!!?!!!!" #bbccricket @bbctms
How many Irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? 3. One to hold the bulb, and two to drink till the room spins.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many people from Oakland does it take to change a lightbulb? Hella.
𝕎𝕙𝕚𝕥𝕖ゾ𝐏𝐫𝐢𝐯𝐢𝐥𝐞𝐠𝐞╱𝗜𝗗𝗟𝗘𝗦 (𝘽𝙧𝙪𝙩𝙖𝙡𝙞𝙨𝙢❟ 2017) ❛How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None!, their butler changes the lightbulb.❜
@DocAtCDI How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One... but the lightbulb is going to have to want to “make that change”
“Alexa, how many chickens does it take to change a lightbulb?” “The population of chickens is estimated to be about 24 billion”
#StartAJoke How many ghosts does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many photographer’s does it take to change a lightbulb? No idea but they'll do it in a flash #photography #joke
Deffo my fave JW joke: How many JWs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the light just gets brighter and brighter!
How many Hootons does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Hootons don’t like seeing things clearly
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
how many men does it take to change a lightbulb? as we appear to be changing the subject randomly.
"mindfulness", indeed. But reminds me of a joke : "How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. But the lightbulb has to *want* to change" ...
"How many donnie trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?" (if he was capable of doing it himself) "Just one, he holds the bulb and the universe revolves around him."
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but that lightbulb has to *really* wanna change. If Falwell still controls the money, he (IMO) has *no* motivation to change.
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? None, why should they change something just because it doesn't work?
How many marks does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many crackheads does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Cause they still the bulb!
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! The butler changes the lightbulb.
Q: How many Tory voters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Boris Johnson tells them it's changed and they sit in the dark and clap.
That's not even how that joke works. How many irrelevant references does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Heracliteans does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but he can't change the same lightbulb twice.
How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? - All of them
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Nobody knows there to busy beating the room for being black
How many Borg does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them. Thank you, I’m here all week.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many Grammar Police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the family home anyway.
How many Captain Picards does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. There. are. four. lights! Thank you. I'm here all week.
How many cult-politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 of them to hold the lightbulb for 30 years. 1 of them to introduce led lights, only to be electrocuted. 1 of them to sell the house to keep the bulb lit. 1 of them to grow a beard and do nothing else in 10 years.
Hey there! I didn't get the weather so here's a joke instead: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Q. How many Gavin Williamsons does it take to change a lightbulb? A. The lightbulb can change itself if it doesn’t like its brightness.
How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb?1 to change it & 1 to check she’s DEFINITELY using oat milk
Well now you’ve answered the question: How many quarantined freakishly tall sons DOES it take to change a lightbulb?
Obrigado pela dica, vou mandar aqui uma que fiz para o Henrique: How many emos does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . None, because they all sit around in the dark and cry!
How many Zen cows does it take to change a lightbulb? Mu.
How many McDonald's workers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they can't climb the ladder
How many squirrels does it take to change a lightbulb? Quickly now, I’m seeing the new business startup manager at 12.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Two statistics that should be headlines. But I won't hold my breath!!! How many neo-liberals does it take to change a lightbulb. None, they just sit in the dark and wait for the invisible hand to do it!
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That's a hardware problem. A day of my life I'll never get back. PSA: there's a 2 year known issue with RE450 (TPLink AC1750) extenders (and many others) and Spectrum Wifi Internet router bug. Spectrum won't fix.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Q: How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A.
How many emo's does it take to change a lightbulb?
“How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb” “I don’t know. How many?” “Only one....but the lightbulbs got to want to change”
Cody reminds me of an old joke from Psychology... how many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but he needs the whole world watching. #AEWDynamite
How many "of Normandys" does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the North will never accept the new lightbulb! 2/11
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
Maybe you should have objected to closing schools then guys. Come on, how many people does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many waddle dees does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
i know this is an old joke but i’ve been laughing at “how many t*rfs does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they still use gaslighting” for literally 10 minutes
How many Women does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Actually, I want to change that to: How many postmodern idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends how enlightened they are.
When outlining the 1 big square like that, wouldn't his own answer just be "1"? So 2+2 can equal 1, 4 or 5? (I can't believe I wasted the time on this thought..!) How many postmodern idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends on their political viewpoint. Zzzzzzzzz
I recall an old joke about how many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb: One to change it & the other 5 to stand around bitching about how they could’ve done it better... I guess we’ve still got a long way to go until “we’re all in this together” is a global movement..
How many trans children does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Their parents are responsible for changing them.
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many purists does it take to change a lightbulb? That's a joke - purists never change anything. First you gotta WIN or you don't get to implement any ideas.
How many Feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to get a man to change it, and the other to criticize men for inventing it.
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Their butler changes the lightbulb
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many presidential aides does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, they are supposed to keep the president in the dark. Whoo wee! Let that one sink in for a while. I LUV THIS
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Man U fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb, the other to drive him up from Surrey. Or her. Take your pick. See Corbynistas? It’s a joke.
How many sociologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Turns out, the answer is not 'one.' It's a complex phenomenon affected by the quantity of new bulbs available, dimmability of the fixture, and whether or not the new bulbs are LED, therefore, this an an exploratory study.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many media organizations does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They don't change anything.
Q: How many Pisceans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Lightbulb? What lightbulb? #gotjokes
How many does it take to change a lightbulb?
Checking the Internet for this one on #PresidentialJokeDay - How many presidential aides does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, they are supposed to keep the president in the dark. Whoo wee! Let that one sink in for a while. https://soo.nr/Vled
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s a lamp.
How many gingers does it take to change a lightbulb? Nobody will ever know. Because we were all killed by this BLOODY HEATWAVE!
I dunno, how many post-structuralists does it take to change a lightbulb? (really hope this is a proper joke)
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTION Q: How many people from Money Twitter does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 4 One to change the lightbulb One to write an ebook on how to do it One to design the ebook cover One to spam their affiliate link under unrelated tweets
How many Karens does it take to change a lightbulb? One. She just holds the bulb and waits for the world to revolve around her.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Toucan.
woobin: how many allens does it take to change a lightbulb? minhee: just one. the real question is: how many ladders does he need? allen: [visibly offended]
my god Q: How many eldritch abominations does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Seven. One to unscrew the lightbulb and... IA! IA! CTHULHU FHTAGN!
How many TERFs does it take to change a lightbulb? Have you ever seen a TERF change anything?
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb... none, they beat the room for being black
How many TERFs does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. It is biologically impossible to change lightbulbs.
How many old, white, male physicians does it take to change a lightbulb? CHANGE???!
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many racist cops does it take to change a lightbulb
Hey man, glad I could get a laugh outta that one! Try once again; How many Californians does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: 20. 1 to screw it in....and the other 19.....to.....EXPERIENCE it.
How many feckless cunts does it take to change a lightbulb? Who fucking knows? Certainly not them.
How many prostitutes does it take to change a lightbulb. I've got a lightbulb needing changed.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many gecs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows, they’re all too busy playing with the Switch.
11th! How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. But everyone has to watch.
cool, I know history, not my problem you can't take a joke. let me go find a list of simpler jokes to entertain you, starting with a simple one: how many polacks does it take to change a lightbulb? Three, one to hold the bulb and two to rotate the chair
How many homos does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the only thing they care about is to f*ck each other
Eu literalmente nunca percebi as piadas de "how many ??? does it take to change a lightbulb?" a sério isto deve ser humor demasiado avançado para mim
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many gas guzzling car drivers does it take to change a lightbulb?? None! They don't like change!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian Your #daily #funny #joke
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb? #CatsOfTwitter
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! Your #daily #funny #joke
How many narcissist does it take to change a lightbulb ? Just one ! All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him. #dailyhumor
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many pisces does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Hell Priests does it take to change a lightbulb?....DOOM Eternal
How many Yorkshire men does it take to change a lightbulb? "What's wrong wi' a candle, lad?!"
Q: How many @packers fans does it take to change a lightbulb?? A: 100,000 - 1 to change the bulb, 99,999 to talk about how great the old one was!! #whathaveyoudoneformelately
How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many @VictorianCHO’s does it take to change a lightbulb? A: This one is all yours, folks...
Q: How many Public Health Physicians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just a few, as long as you don’t have Facebook groups full of idiots deliberately swapping in faulty lightbulbs everywhere.
Q: How many Public Health Workers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: More than you have right now, depending on how high the lightbulb’s R-Eff is.
Q: How many Occupational Health and Safety specialists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the key is to redesign the lightbulb’s environment to encourage change.
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb has to WANT to change.
How many strawmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
#447828: NgOs_WiLL: how many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? NgOs_WiLL: One to change it and fifteen to form a support group! E30SupeR: it's a trick question - feminists can't change anything.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They use gaslighting.
How many women on the internet does it take to change a lightbulb A man offered to do it but they went mad so tweeted about it whilst the lightbulb remained unchanged. So, no amount of women will ever be able to change a lightbulb
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q: How many people with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Do you want to go ride bikes?
How many woke Twitter accounts does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'd be too busy tweeting about how problematic it is to whitewash the dark room
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadJokes #randomJokes
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb??? None, Trump tells them HE changed it, and they all sit in the dark and applaud!!!
"How many Microsoft engineers does it take to change a lightbulb^H^H^H^Hhorrifying bug in MS Excel?" - "None! The world just lowers their expectations!!"
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
"How many scientists does it take to change a lightbulb?"
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Bot joke- How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many #SEO experts does it take to change a lightbulb, light bulb, light, bulb, lamp, bulbs, flowers, flour...? #FridayVibes #IHaveAJokeOn #digitalmarketinghumour
There's a difference between dark jokes and just flat out racism For example, the whole "how many police does it take to change a lightbulb, none, they'd beat the room for being black" isn't racist, it's clearly a joke. But saying "haha n***er" is racist
How many Genesis Fans does it take to Change a lightbulb? - 100! One to do it, and 99 to tell you how much better Peter Gabriel would have done it. (Love ne some Gabriel though)
How many teenagers does it take to change a lightbulb? Whatever. #dadjokes
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the lightbulb, one to hold the penis, I mean father, I mean mother... (Thank you Frasier!)
Q: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just the one. But he has to do it before the old one becomes cool.
How many black people does it take to change a lightbulb? None cause he’s in jail akikikikiki
Q: How many double glazing salesmen does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just let me get my calculator, I think you might be surprised. #oldngold
Proving once again the truth behind the old joke. Q: How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That’s not funny!
bro how many kids does it take to change a lightbulb ? it has to be more than 9 bc my basement is still dark
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
Heretic. Reminds me of the joke: How many Vermonters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Them lightbulbs were our grandparents’ and we ain’t about to change now.
Skyrider: How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
how many hostile cops does it take to change a lightbulb? as many as they fking say and I'm going to arrest you if you don't lie the f down now!
How many Nintendo players does it take to change a lightbulb? Fuck all if I know, they won't stop playing with the damn Switch.
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many photographer’s does it take to change a lightbulb? 50, 1 to change the bulb and 49 to say 'I could've done that' #photography #joke
How many #TrumpVirus peeps does it take to change a lightbulb?
speaking of jokes...how many people in the trump (lack of) administration does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows, no one has lasted longer than it takes for a light bulb to go out.
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them, 1 to promise a brighter future and the rest to screw it up.
@PrisonPlanet How many woke people does it take to change a lightbulb? Ans. That's not funny, dammit!
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven. I know. I’m going to the big I’ll get ma coat.
Q. How many western leftists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Israel.
How many Spaniards does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan #dadjoke
How many poles does it take to change a lightbulb ? - 100; 1 to hold the lightbulb and 99 to spin the house
How many clarks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many detention officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many #therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But the lightbulb must want to change, quotes Dr. Rathna Isaac, as we run through a rehearsal for her presentation tomorrow. :) https://hasgeek.com/kilter/guide-to-therapy/… @hasgeek @KilterClub
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None they just arrest the lightbulb for being broke and beat the room for being black
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q: How many #Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who knows? They’re all too busy playing with the switch. (Reddit-#Jokes, August 5) #riddles #puns https://barrypopik.com/index.php/new_york_city/entry/how_many_nintendo_fans/…
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb?, Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
@NinEverything How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? They’re all too busy playing with the switch
@BadTasteTee How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? They’re all too busy playing with the switch
it's like the joke, how many teamsters does it take to change a lightbulb? 12. why 12? you gotta problem wit dat?
how many Brady’s does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Cuomos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Presidential Candidates does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just promise change!
How many people on Twitch does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to ch-...oh, thanks Colin.
'How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? ... Fish' -- that's the only one I've heard. (Though I appreciate the possibilities are endless.)
How many Murphy's does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
#KenDoll gets power & loot while #Twitler gets to play with his #BotoxBarbie How many #COVIDIOTS does it take to change a lightbulb. Who knows? They’ve done nothing. #BrokenPromises #noshame
Or, how many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb!
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? 3, 1 to change it and 2 to write a folk song about it.
How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? They’re all too busy playing with the switch.
that thing that’s like how many people does it take to change a lightbulb but it’s how many gays does it take to set up LED mood lighting
How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? They’re all too busy playing with the switch..
Q: How many #nocoders does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 2. a MAKER to actually change the lightbulb a MARKETER to persuade people that with an improved lightbulb they will become better versions of themselves (cc @JensLennartsson)
How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? They’re all too busy playing with the switch
How many episodes of Star Trek does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, but it's gonna take them three seasons to do it right.
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, you see, you can't just change the lightbulb right away. If we tried to change the *entire* lightbulb all at once then we wouldn't be able to appeal to centrists who aren't certain the lightbulb is broken. Instead we-
How many Covid tests does it take to change a lightbulb? one... if it's accurate.
Trump facts, they're mad. Trump snark, they're furious. Trump having fun, RAGE. That's it ! Let's all do our best one liners for Dem's on Friday. " How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb" ONE. "Three best years of a liberals life" SIXTH GRADE. You got this !!
How many #nocode platforms does it take to change a lightbulb ??
How many Nintendo fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? They’re all too busy playing with the switch.
@ToomeyWright @where2mate @justin11393624 How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb ? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many of the Jack Assaf family does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many sexual predators does it take to change a lightbulb? A: I don't know. Ask a conservative.
Ok. How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they like living in the dark.
You are the only person I know that has gotten that. I'm sure the World is telling American jokes. "How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb?"
Q: How many comicsgaters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: "Damn SJWs trying to change lightbulbs! NOT ON MY WATCH! I'll show them, I'll go sell these old broken lightbulbs to people who choose to sit in the dark for $30 a shard!"
Two psychologists pass in the hallway. One says "good morning" the other, to herself, "I wonder what he meant by that?" How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one ; but the lightbulb has to really want to change! Ok so that's enough right? Lol
It's called 'nothink' surely. Or 'you absolute fucking idiot just stop'. Or 'How many orange shitgibbons does it take to change a lightbulb? None because the lights are out, have always been out and they're not coming on you should take a long hard look at urself merica ffs'
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Pleiadians does it take to change a lightbulb? None. We are the light.
How many Senate #Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, @realDonaldTrump says it's fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and clap.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Rihanna’s does it take to change a lightbulb
I had to dig deep, but only came up with being the butt of this joke: How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just beat the room for being black.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish.
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? One to change it and another to change it back again. #JokeOfTheDay
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #pun / #dadjoke
How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they still use gaslighting...
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? ZERO Trump announces he's fixed it and The Republicans sit in the dark applauding.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, but half dozen will beat the room for being black.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q. How many gender critical feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. You can’t change it, it will still be a f**king lightbulb.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the bulb has to REALLY WANT to change.
How many stuck-at-home families does it take to change a lightbulb? Find out with @EfficiencyDay’s 15 #energyefficiency tips for a socially distanced summer ­– number seven surprised us! (And mark your calendar for #EEDay2020 on Oct. 7. https://bit.ly/3dog2NX
Hey @MishaBotBot! I wonder how many Mishabots does it take to change a lightbulb? And why is six afraid of seven? #TheAdequateOstriches
Paladin: SOMEONE at this fancy party is a vampire. But who? Bard: HEY, HOW MANY VAMPIRES DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? Vampire: (tears off old-fashioned evening wear to reveal leather apron, gogo-boots & welding goggles) OOoooh, change it into WHAT!? All: Vampire: Crap.
How many Bhakts does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s Nehru’s fault!
How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? If it's their lightbulb, none of your damn business.
How many Greens does it take to change a lightbulb? Lightbulbs? Who changes light bulbs these days?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s Obama’s fault.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Yes. I own a copy. I don't have to read it though. I already know. #edit #editing #literaryagent #grammar "How many copy editors does it take to change a lightbulb?"
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
I made a QAnon joke that I hope you will enjoy: How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but they have to accuse the lightbulb of being a peadophile first.
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the home anyway.
#jokes How many teamsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Twelve ... you got a problem?
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but they have to accuse the lightbulb of being a peadophile first.
How many Tim Smiths does it take to change a lightbulb? I count 5. Have I missed any @MikeCarlton01? #DimTim 1 to phone it in to the radio station 1 to contact the Herald Sun 1 to hold the camera 1 to distract the public from the public health emergency 1 to tweet how hard it is
Miss 13: How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? Me: ? Miss 13: More than 12, because my basement is still dark. #zing
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but they have to accuse the lightbulb of being a peadophile first.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Nevermind that was a silly question. Feminists can't change anything.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Nevermind that was a silly question. Feminists can't change anything.
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? Three, one to hold the bulb, second to give £100m to a mate of a mate to provide an app or PPE and finally the other one to blame someone else when the bulb isn't screwed in correctly and it results in the house burning down.
How many Konpi’s does it take to change a lightbulb? — He won't change it https://curiouscat.qa/1203kotori/post/1127310021…
In #Vermont the joke is: “How many Vermonters does it take to change a lightbulb? Change it!? That was my grandfather’s lightbulb!” In #NewHampshire, the joke is the same, except switch “screw” for “lightbulb”. I changed my grandfather’s 59 yr old screws today. The earth shook.
How many pigs does it take to change a lightbulb? SHEESH!
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
Quick - how many Habs fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they just keep talking about how great the old one was
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?...All of them, they chose dienlightenment!!
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?? Don’t be silly, feminists never change a damn thing
Since you're from Poland, and so friendly, maybe you can help me out. How many Pollocks DOES it take to change a lightbulb?
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many Beatles does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. -George Harrison
How many asoiaf fans does it take to change a lightbulb? seriously though ladders are of the devil, I avoid high places at all costs.
TFW your sense of humour has been surgically removed so you fail to understand satire or spot a joke. How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? Thats not funny!
I always like, how many women does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just sit on the dark & bitch about it (just jokes!!)
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb None. Feminists can't change anything. Also they will just say that's a man's job
Reminds me of the old joke ....How many Victorians does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many radicals does it take to change a lightbulb? No, the better question - how many piled up corpses does the radical have to stand on to get to the lightbulb above him?
Jokes are commonly insanely dark and fucked up it’s how humor is been it’s not making light of the situation it’s dark humor this case Dark humor. Here’s a dark humor joke “How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None they beat the room for being black
How many psychoanalysts does it take to change a lightbulb ? One, but the lightbulb must want to change... A bit like corona tayar aahe ka ??
how many svt members does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many communists does it take to change a lightbulb? 10, one to hold the candle and nine to make up the firing squad to shoot the intellectual that knew how to change it.
oh i am.. i mean, how many stupid ppl are still here trying to "school" one person???? one single person lol. it's like how many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb scenario lolololol what's even more funny... is that they keep coming back lololol for one person lol
How many Moose does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because if you don’t do it she’ll kill you in your sleep.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them. #jokes #funny #pun
How many leftists does it take to change a lightbulb? Never gets done because they’re still yelling how racist, sexist, capitalist and homophobic it is to do so. And then they set it on fire because Black Lives Matter.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One, because they're efficient.
How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're still waiting in line
How many Effin' Birds does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many metalheads does it take to change a lightbulb? None....they just embrace the darkness. Man I love the rock stations here at the beach
How many Stars does it take to change a lightbulb? AVAILABLE NOW Episode 68 - #ATCtrivia - Round 1 https://soundcloud.com/allthingscoheedpodcast/atctrivia1…
How many centrists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, change is too radical for them.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many cranes does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many autistics does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
Reminds me of a joke - How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? none -- they just sit in the dark and b***h.
how many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? three. one to hold the giraffe and two to fill the bathtub with brightly-coloured power tools.
At first glance: How many landlords does it take to change a lightbulb? I live in a loft & they won't let me borrow their ladder, so I would have to pay the price they decide the lightbulb costs. Also...anybody know the laws pertaining to Section 42? It's listed under HUD but...?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero! They will all just stand around in the dark because Trump says the light is working fine! Same thing...
"how many wren does it take to change a lightbulb? one to screw it in and two to eat noodle"
Q: How many Scots Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Two; one to pour the G&Ts, the second to phone the electrician
How many recovering addicts does it take to change a lightbulb? They all can, but it takes a 12 step ladder.
how many eric’s does it take to change a lightbulb? 5 awake and 1 asleep, so that when he wakes up they know the light works <3
How many TERFs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're still using gaslighting.
mako: haha heres a funny joke- how many ex gfs does it take to change a lightbulb mako: korrasami come back idk how to change the lightbulb
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Ruby Princess passengers allowed off ship after Border Force mistook negative flu tests for coronavirus results https://abc.net.au/news/2020-07-30/border-force-ruby-princess-coronavirus-test-bungle/12505072… How many ABF people does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Their butler changes the lightbulb.
How many Gohmerts does it take to change a lightbulb? 0, because Gohmerts are always in the dark. How many Gohmerts does it take to make popcorn? 0, because Gohmerts are so stupid they don't know how to turn on a stove. Why are Gohmerts so strong? Because they raise dumbbells.
How many trans activists does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. One to put a dress on it, one to make an anime avatar for it and 98 to force the rest of society to admit it's valid.
My name is Al Lee. Adult human male from Stone, in Staffordshire. My business website is in my profile, for all to see and contact. I have a partial 'search' ban in force from Twitter today for my joke about 'How many trans activists does it take to change a lightbulb?'
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One... or two? One...or two?
How many dyslexic irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Tree.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
Q: How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Change, or replace? This is a @benmoor joke.
How many TERFs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still believe that it works and saying otherwise is a social construct.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb ? One but the lightbulb has to wants to change
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb? Woah, we like it fine here in the dark.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many retards does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many TERFs does it take to change a lightbulb? None; they're using gaslighting.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb, Eine, because ve are efficient and don't make ze jokes
Number 30: Q: How many CoSplayers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Anton LaVey invented light bulb changing. There are no other forms of light bulb changing.
How many Vorlons does it take to change a lightbulb? "It is not the light that changes, but the perception of the receiver."
How many Hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb??? It's like some obscure number you probably never heard of
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Facebook photography group members does it take to change a lightbulb? #Photography https://buff.ly/382ypW4
How many Freudian analysts does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and one to hold the penis.
well for one 'how many does it take to change a lightbulb' jokes wouldnt be so funny anymor..
To answer the lifelong question of how many Jorrics does it take to change a lightbulb, the answer is 1
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: They sit in the dark whining about it's Obama's fault that the lightbulb burned out, even though he was the one who installed an LED bulb but then Trump removed the LED to put an incandescent. #BarrHearing
How many TRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? None - it's a trans-candle, you transphobe!
how many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? ... ... ideally three, but *toucan* !!! ahahah
How many bureaucrats does it take to change a lightbulb? How many? Three. One to file the paperwork in triplicate, one to assure the public that everything possible is being done to change the lightbulb, and one to screw the lightbulb into the water faucet.
How many censors does it take to change a lightbulb? One to _____ ____ ____ and another to ____ _______ ___ while ____ _______ ____ ____ with a _______.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None Trump tells them it’s OK and they all sit there in the dark and clap. They’re all simple - worshiping the crackhead!
How many transactivists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's women's work. * Sarcasm Disclaimer, obvs*
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? ...Fish fingers.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? THAT’S NOT FUNNY!
How many trans activists does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. One to put a dress on it, one to make an anime avatar for it and 98 to force the rest of society to admit it's valid.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? #UseHeadphones #DrumLickOfTheDay #vf15 @vicfirth @gretschdrums • • • • • • • • #smashthefuckingthing #boooom #davegrohl #drums #drummer #music #rock #drum… https://instagram.com/p/CDMRZIQpleU/?igshid=113mh4l3oct0l…
Time for some Libertarian jokes: Why did the Libertarian cross the road? Mind your own damn business. How many Libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? Mind your own damn business. Knock, knock. Who’s there? Libertarian. Libertarian who? Mind your own damn business.
"How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?" Just one of the many questions one should ask before buying a lighthouse.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
I don't know, how many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb?
Just heard my brother tell this joke to his friends online: “How many emos does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all just sit in the dark and cry.” I’m SCREAMING. I feel so attacked
Q: How many sex offenders does it take to change a lightbulb? A: I don't know. Ask a republican.
Da fällt mir immer mein Lieblingswitz über "the Germans" ein. How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One of course. We Germans are very efficient, and do not have any kind of humour we are aware of.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him.
How many GOP movement conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? None. If you leave it alone long enough, the invisible hand will fix it.
How many tweeps does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to change lightbulb and tweet about it. 4 to tweet that it's light bulb and not lightbulb. 7 to condemn them 4 as stupid. 18 to tell the 7 to leave the 4 alone. 8 to claim LEDs are better. 5 to tweet pics of there bulbs
Q: How many Klingons does it take to change a lightbulb? A: NONE: Klingons aren't afraid of the dark
How many mathematicians does it take to change a light bulb? .9999999999 How many astrophysicists does it take to change a lightbulb? It takes 2. 1 to hold the light bulb. 1 to revolve the universe around it
How many Irish Mothers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Ach, don't you worry yourself about it, you go out and have fun with your friends, sure I'll just sit here in the dark, alone."
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Qarens does it take to change a lightbulb. None. Lightbulbs don't exist. #Qaren #Qarens #MaskupMelbourne
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One… or two?
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? #birdjokes #parrothumour
Q: How many #AntiMaskers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: All of them......but you have to wait until every last one of the dozy shitwits has posted a selfie of themselves buying the replacement bulb in B&Q So honestly it'd be quicker to DIY
How many Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? Don’t be daft, they have special advisers who have assistants who have interns to do that sort of stuff, plebs.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Q: How many comic artists does it take to change a lightbulb? A:What’s the deadline?
Q: How many nihilists does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many speedrunners does it take to change a lightbulb? none we'll just unscrew it to put it back in and get a better time
How many nihilists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter. (via @popbitch)
Nobody: *Bae changing the lightbulb* Bae: How many tra**y’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Me: Idk lmfaooo Her: Apparently only one
How many owls does it take to change a lightbulb? Because they're twits you need tw-oo.
How many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one if he can cheat
But do post feminist jokes. Jo samgha wo khush. Nahi tu mazhab ko khatra tu hr waqt moujood hy. Let me say one... Q. How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. It's not the lightbulb that needs changing.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Wonderful joke I came across today: How many Bexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? None - Boris tells them its fixed and they all sit in the dark applauding.
Quick Question: How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they all use gaslighting. d;¬{D #TomsDailyQuips
How many Spanish guys does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan What do you call a Scottish man who’s half home? Hame-Ish
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just the one, but the lightbulb has to want to change
“How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Usually three, but sometimes toucan.”
How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer. Fish.
Begs the question... How many messiahs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb ffs
@JohnCleese had the best one. How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? "None. We think it still works."
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? Man: It doesn't need changing, babe, the lighting in here is perfectly fine, you are just overreacting, if you loved me you wouldn't make such a big deal about it.
how many officers does it take to change a lightbulb none because they will shoot at the room for being dark
Hey Gordon, How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
mark how many squirrels does it take to change a lightbulb #chatwithmark
How many skunks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Antifa does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows, they burnt the house down.
How many Emo kids does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. They just sit in the dark and cry.
How many hookers does it take to change a lightbulb? Must be more than 3 because my basement is still dark.
how many people does it take to change a lightbulb? none, because nobody cares about me
How many stockbrokers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to take the bulb out and drop it, and the other to try and sell it before it crashes!!
MY ONLY JOKE EVER. MY MIND ISN'T NIMBLE LIKE THAT. I HAVE SOME WIT. THIS IS DERIVATIVE BUT .... HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I DON'T KNOW EITHER BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT. WAH, WAH....
I have a socialist joke. "How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "There's no point in changing one lightbulb when actually we need to replace the entire rotten system. But you can help me design some cool 'down with darkness' posters.
#DescribePoliticsIn3Words Can't do it (How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They only promise change.)
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? I heard Toucan
Actors. Everyone auditions for the role. One actor gets the part. All others, riddled with envy, watch his/her performance and mutter “I could’ve done that.” Leading to actor joke: How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? One. The rest say It coulda done that’
How many designers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They won’t change a bloody thing...
Q: How many security engineers does it take to change a lightbulb A: NO
how many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but they will be gatekept from the lightbulbs in the store and everyone else will wonder why can't they just live with the lights off and why things need to change
I have a programmer joke: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. We don't deal with hardware problems.
Q. How many Harold Pinters does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Listen. You know what it's like when you're in a room with the light on and then suddenly the light goes out? I'll show you. It's like this. He turns out the light. BLACKOUT
How many Stephen Sondheims does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but you’ll never anticipate it.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many people in the Order of Hermès does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. Hermetics are efficient and not particularly funny How many members of House Tremere does it take? 1. Tremere are efficient and not particularly funny.
How many mob men does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to change the bulb. One to watch and one to shoot the witness
How many Yale students does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. they hold the lightbulb in place and wait for the world to revolve around them
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Nah fam, they just beat the room for being black.
How many EY auditors does it take to change a lightbulb? There is no lightbulb....
Reminds me of the joke, how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but time's up, we can discuss it at your next session.
I say I say I say. How many civil servants does it take to change a lightbulb CHANGE??? We’ll set up a change management committee, extensively negotiate with the unions, manage people through the change curve, & do it slowly over a couple of years, preferably outside London.
Listening to the bit in @atpfm where Marco can’t open the seltzer bottle and it occurs to me that this is the modern equivalent of: ‘how many men does it take to change a lightbulb’ . Also ‘black cherry seltzer’ — why is this delicious-sounding beverage not a thing in the UK?!
How many Libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? Am I being detained?
Q: How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Five - One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it. Ok, some drummer jokes actually do apply.
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
That's very much like: How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? That's not funny.
A psychology one - ‘How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t matter - the lightbulb has got to want to change.’
How many nuclear physicists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: One - one to write the theory, one to do the experiment and one to normalise the result.
How many historical linguists does it take to change a lightbulb? One to change the lightbulb, one to reconstruct the change, one to demonstrate that the change was regular.
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many conductors does it take to change a lightbulb? ...I don't know, I wasn't watching.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb. None. It has to want to change itself 1st.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? It's one of those weird new numbers that you probably haven't heard of..
How many trance DJs does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but first you must come on a journey.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? It's one of those weird new numbers, you probably haven't heard of it yet.
How many consultants does it take to change a lightbulb? One, as long as the commissioning organisation already knows which lightbulb it wants to get rid of.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but Toucan.
there goes a funny joke How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many #DonaldTrumps does it take to change a lightbulb? "What's a lightbulb?".
Haha! This reminds me of the jokes - “how many ——— does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many MAGATs does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He'll say he changed it better than anyone could have, and they'll all cheer in the dark
How many Tory politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter. They are all cunts.
How many Dems does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they have ever done a manual labor job in their life so they call an overpriced Union electrician to do it for them....
"How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb?" "One! Ve are efficient and have no senze of humour"
Today's coding tutorial. How many developers does it take to change a lightbulb? With the State pattern, not very many. #designpatterns #wpf #dotnetcore #csharp #statepattern #pelicancrossing
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb?, A Brazilian
How many immigrants does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn’t matter, Katie Hopkins will still find a way to stick her Bojack face in the mix &!go viral with racism.
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the house anyway.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #dadjokes
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q; How many rehabs does it take to change a lightbulb? A; Only one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change.
How many pessimists does it take to change a lightbulb? Why bother? The new one will just burn out too.
I miss fun #LibraryTwitter So as corny as this is, it's giving me a giggle today and I'm going to share it. --How many catalogers does it take to change a lightbulb? --Just one, but she has to see how LC does it first #LibrarianProblems #CatalogerProblems
On that note: How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? 3, One to change it and 2 to write a folk song about it.
Like this one: "How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?" "If the lightbulb had been engineered correctly, it would not need to have been changed."
How many witches does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. They change them into frogs. https://punsandoneliners.com/randomness/frog-jokes/… #Frog #FrogJokes #Joke #Humour
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many Modi supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: Zero, Modi just says it is fixed and all his supporters Sit in the dark and Applaude.
"There's a joke that's current in the Standards Committee: 'How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Can't be done, it's an ABI break.'" -- @phil_nash https://cpp.chat/65/
how many Rickett's does it take to change a lightbulb #OpeningDay
How many gods does it take to change a lightbulb??? None, they're all fake, you need a person to change a lightbulb
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Hey Gym. How many sex offenders does it take to change a lightbulb? I'm asking you because you would know.
Q: how many people does it take to change a lightbulb? A: All of them
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but Toucan.
how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb .. ?
How many thriller writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to get shot trying, the second to screw it in almost all the way, and the third to give it a surprising twist at the end! #amwriting #writerslife #writing
How many Tucker Carlsons does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and another to blame the missing lightbulb on Black people.
How many Peter Gabriels does it take to change a lightbulb? Let me try to think of a joke XD
Q: How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That's a hardware problem.
Asked my youngest brother “how many birds does it take to change a lightbulb” and this fucking prick says “none they don’t even have hands”
How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb? CHANGE???? (Got that from a book I read many years ago. Can`t remember title or writer but it was set in Oxford....)
This is the answer to the question, 'how many fools does it take to change a lightbulb?"
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but T #jokes #short https://bit.ly/2WOHBdU
And how many cleaners does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many wrestlers does it take to change a lightbulb? One. It just takes them a week to get up the ladder.
How many U of Much fans does it take to change a lightbulb? They don't change it, they just talk about how great the old one was.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but Toucan.
how many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? — idk?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
how many azeris does it take to change a lightbulb
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: 1 to leave vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
That kind of answers the question: How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb...
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
#StupidQuestionsForTheSun How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but Toucan.
How many #SEO experts does it take to change a lightbulb ... #aJuxtMedia #digitalmarketing #SearchEngineOptimization
How many dance instructors does it take to change a lightbulb? 5 6 7 8
How many snowflakes does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but apparently Toucan.
How many Jo Bidens does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But he can't find one.
How many dumb trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Ideally three, but Toucan.
How many Canadians does it take to change a lightbulb? One, and they will bring you a Timmies too.
How many Scottish Nationalists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just sit around doing nothing useful and blame Westminster for the old one blowing.
How many photographer’s does it take to change a lightbulb? 50, 1 to change the bulb and 49 to say 'I could've done that' #photography #joke
How many anticlimaxes does it take to change a lightbulb three
How many rushmeads does it take to change a lightbulb?
“How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? “ None. He tells them that it is repaired and they cheer him in the dark.
Q: How many Guardian readers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Both of them #GuardianLayoffs #FakeNews
How many Trinity graduates does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. S/he holds the bulb up to the socket and the whole world revolves around them.
How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. 1 to change the lightbulb and 99 to say “that should be me up there doing that!”
How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb by any chance?
How many trans/non binary ppl does it take to change a lightbulb?? Just one.. but everyone tells them they need to slow down first to make sure the lightbulb even needs changing or maybe they can just get used to living in the dark.
How many country singers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to do it and one to sing a song about all the good times he had with the old light bulb.
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They wouldn't do it. It's a hardware problem.
Q: How many thin-skinned bigots does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just one, but they're probably gonna throw it on the ground and yell, "Go screw yourself, bulb! I like being in the dark better anyway!"
How many MSQ workers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He just tells them it’s fixed and they sit in the darkness and applaud. Watch Brianna Keilar fact check Trump's Fox News interview and attempt to turn on the lights.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many LGBT Pollocks does it take to change a lightbulb?
Hey @carlambrown @kellismithmodel @jasminedelaunay @NataliaForrest1 @laurenlouise228 @AliciaK_20 A joke for you: How many models does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but I want her to answer the 73 inbox messages I've sent her first!! I'm here all week.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many magi does it take to change a lightbulb
Remind me of the old joke: Q: how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A:Only one but the light bulb has to reslly want to change! Kanye does not – how else would he garner all this attention?#StopPayingAttentionWhores
„How many German does it take to change a lightbulb?“ „One. We don’t have Humor and are efficient“
How many women with Green Eyes does it take to change a lightbulb? #BTILC
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: I can see fine, FAKE NEWS! Obama is the one who put that lightbulb in. Why don't you ask Killary why she let that bulb die? MAGA 2020!!!!!
how many brawlhalla devs does it take to change a lightbulb... it doesn’t matter coz they all got zero to deathed by cannon
"How many translators does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends on the context." This joke, and more, in this neat post by @RichardMBrooks: https://buff.ly/38DVrEs #xl8 #t9n #translation #humor #fun #freelance #freelancing #1nt #
How many LNP politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? None, but....
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb! Bit high for me that one! Work underway at the #Fischercountyground
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's just some random number dude, you've probably never heard of it....
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb?, Let's go ride bikes!
How many Yankees fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They’ll just stand around talking about how they’ve had 27 great lightbulbs in the past
How many Murdoch faithful journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them working together to depict the idea of changing a lightbulb like it was an original idea and create enough outrage so that people think it’s a threat and continue to stay in the dark.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? What a stupid question, feminists can’t change anything.
How many gods does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. There’s no lightbulb problem. Everything is always bright, thanks to Donald Trump, who btw people said couldn’t find a socket with both hands. It’s a disgrace. #MeanwhileAmericansAreDying
how many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? it’s a very obscure number, you probably won’t have heard of it...
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Demoncraps does it take to change a lightbulb. Zero, because they must live in darkness!
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q: How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That's not a lightbulb.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? --> A Brazilian
Favourite Cold War joke: How many Soviets does it take to change a lightbulb? 101, one to change the bulb and the other hundred to sing The Ballad of the Brave Lightbulb Changer.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None. They hire an immigrant to change it but then stiff him after questioning his citizenship and accusing him of stealing American jobs.
"How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb" "Gee, I don't know. One?" "None, they beat the room for being black"
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem. #jokes #funny #pun
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
How many Antisemites does it take to change a lightbulb? They wouldn’t bother. Just easier for them to sit in darkness and blame the Jews!
How many Alan Bennets does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many emotions does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. Love, love changes everything.
How many calories does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many alliance list parties does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Bill Clintons does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None--He'll only promise change. #gotjokes
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
What is wrong with these people ?! They arrest this black guy, don’t say why, provoke his annoyance and then say he is aggressive and he is now being arrested for a public order offence. How many electricians does it take to change a lightbulb?!
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they just beat the lamp for being black.
How many ambush officers does it take to change a lightbulb? All that for two people. Ha, ha.
How many #Qanon followers does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to accuse the lightbulb company of child trafficking and 40k to sit in the dark retweeting it
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sans does it take to change a lightbulb
Not sure how we managed this because we got quite a few answers wrong... But presumably we got a bonus point for the wonderful Hungarian word for camel: zergekecsketejeket! Also, how many corpus linguists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Anglicans does it take to change a lightbulb? https://stlukesanglican.ca/2020/07/17/how-many-anglicans-does-it-take-to-change-a-light-bulb/…
How many freedom dollars does it take to change a lightbulb or something?
How many red wall voters does it take to change a lightbulb? After brexit, they'll be fighting for the opportunity....
How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, how many do you think it takes? -- Happy Friday :)
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer Telephone box
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
On The Lighter Side... How many pessimists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many GOP dimwits does it take to change a lightbulb? Definitely less than 924—the number of Covid-19 deaths in the US yesterday.
How many Butch Queenz does it take to change a lightbulb… Well, and undercabinet halogen one… I guess just the one. #HomeImprovements #ButchQueen #UndercabinetLighting #Electrician #DadBod #Glasses #BackBend
How many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
So how many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Omg
Adora: how many Frosta's does it take to change a lightbulb? Glimmer, totally serious: just one. the real question is, how many ladders does she need? Frosta: [smol angry noises] #sheraincorrectorcorrectqoutes
How many French men does it take to change a lightbulb?
How do you get an one armed liberal out of a tree? Wave to him. How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? 1001. 1 to change the bulb 1000 to protest for the dead lightbulb.
How many editors does it take to change a lightbulb? Too
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
And think of all the "how many ________ does it take to change a lightbulb" jokes they'll never understand.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? -- #programming #jokes #chatbots #research #uxdesign
How many communists does it take to change a lightbulb. It doesn't matter. Without electricity the thing won't even work
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadjokes
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Aardvark in a pickle sauce.
heres a joke for my californian followers: how many PG&E employees does it take to change a lightbulb? trick question, no amount of PG&E employees will ever fix anything ever.
How many #Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows because they are always working in the dark. #DemocratsAreDestroyingAmerica #DeepStateExposed
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
Are we allowed to go for the How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? 1-2, 1-2
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. We got machines for that now!
How many Psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 but the lightbulb has got to want to change. #jokes
How many skankers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two; one unscrew the bulb and the other to pick it up, pick it up, Pick it up! Heard this joke at the @TheAquabats concert in 06
How many sound technicians does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Two. One-two. One.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Wait, that's a silly question, feminists can't change anything
Uhhh.. *carefully clears throat* how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Donald Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb and the other to tell us what a great job the new bulb is doing.
How many Marvel Characters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
Q: How many roadies does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 1, 2... 1, 2... 1... 2... 1, 2.
how many narvin's does it take to change a lightbulb — five or more bc he is incompetent
Q: How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: If the lightbulb isn't working, maybe it should Find Something New to do, like becoming a coffee mug.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJokes #RandomJokesIO
@AudacityofGoats Operaetic Humour: How many altos does it take to change a lightbulb? (None. They can’t get that high.) How do you know a soprano is at your door? (She can’t find the key and doesn’t know where to come in.)
Q: How many post-doctoral fellows does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but it'll probably take three or four tries to get it right because he/she will probably give it to the technician to do.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but it takes nine visits. #JokeOfTheDay
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in Ire? 17 guys to head to hardware store to buy the lightbulb and three guys to stand on each others' shoulders to reach the bulb.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many hands does it take to change a lightbulb
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many soccer fans does it take to change a lightbulb? #gotjokes
How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? I’m better than you.
How many Hollywood producers does it take to change a lightbulb? Does it have to be a bulb?
How many Irish mothers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, we're ok here in the dark.
How many Spaniards does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadjoke
How many germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We are efficient and don't have a sense of humor.
How many cartoonists does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but I do know one isn’t enough. I’ve been working on one bulb replacement in a bathroom for over a month. Must be a trick to it.
How many Freudian analysts does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb and another to hold the penis...LADDER, ladder. I meant ladder.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
Lol its like how many corpo workers does it take to change a lightbulb
And how many Belarusian policemen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many torys does it take to change a lightbulb. None- if Boris says it's fixed that means are lightbulbs fixed, It doesn't matter if we're still in the dark, he's tried his best and deserves a round of applause
How many hardware engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the diagnostics have to tell him the lightbulb needs changing.
JOKE: How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question. There are no lightbulbs in a socialist system because only a free market can respond to consumer demand adequately to ensure a supply of lightbulbs for all that need them.
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb ? Juan.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Of course. One of our leading luvvies. Saying 'look at me being so wonderful' when all he has to do is quietly send a cheque to HMRC and have done with it. How many luvvies does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Plus another dozen or so to say 'oh darling, you were wonderful!'
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Given Simon was born with a silver spoon, he was sick and tired of the running joke from all his acquaintances. “How many Simon Holmes a Court does it take to change a lightbulb?” “None, he’s too precious and hopeless & would probably burn himself”.
- How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? - 1 or 2? 1....or 2?
nvm, one more. how many posadists does it take to change a lightbulb? at least 3. one to try and instigate nuclear war so that we may rebuild the buildings, and the lightbulbs with them, from the ground up, one to recruit the aliens and one to recruit the dolphins for help.
How many Trotskyites does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter, good luck getting them to work together.
how many tankies does it take to change a lightbulb? at least 2. one to search for what Stalin has written on how to change a lightbulb and one to then force someone else to change it
how many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? 0. the lightbulb will have to pull itself up by its bootstraps and change itself if change is so necessary
how many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? well, about 17 or so, but at least a bunch of those have to be elected, and that takes thousands of people... so it takes a lot of them
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the home anyway.
How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. One to change the lightbulb and the other 99 to say 'I could do that'
Got another one: How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? Am i being detained? AM I OR AM I NOT BEING DETAINED?!? I refuse to answer this question without a lawyer present.
How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, because the invisible hand of market will do it more efficiently.
q. How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? a. None. They live in eternal darkness.
How many family therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One to change it and another two to talk about them changing the bulb
How many ACT therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'd just befriend the dark instead
This is true as a healer a Teacher or a therapist. There's an old joke how many therapist does it take to change a lightbulb..... Just one but the light bulb has to want to change. You cannot do the emotional labor… https://instagram.com/p/CCla79Onh8R/?igshid=1ro26v88xzbhs…
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many Monsta X members does it take to change a lightbulb? One hoe
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many D.C. felons does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them..while only one of them takes the credit!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
how many gecs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many #himbos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trans People does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but you must to get two letters first to make sure it's the right decision. #TransLife #TransJokes #Translol
How many girls does it take to change a lightbulb? Not sure, but if it’s on Twitter, at least two will be naked and one will have the bulb up their bum at some point
Question: How Many Huskers does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: The lightbulb won’t get changed, and the Huskers will sit in the dark reminiscing about how great the old one was.
How many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? None they are all too scared of having a lightbulb moment
Q. How many students at your alma mater does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Just one, but she gets three credit-hours for it.
QUESTION: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? ANSWER: None. Leos dont do all that ordinary low life shit. They get a Virgo to do it for them.
I have been practicing "dad jokes" with Mod-dono, I thought I should share. . . How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many lin does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Grammar Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to try, and 80000 to scream at them that they have it too good and they're doing it wrong
Q: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb at an axe-throwing club? A: Douchebags.
How do you finish this? How many Karen’s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb I wouldn’t know I did it myself
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: only one. But the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? ...Fish
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Oh do shut the fuck up & get over yourself. Even port officials have said it's bullshit. How many Leftie Remoaners does it take to change a lightbulb? None because like mushrooms they would rather remain in the dark & be force fed bullshit!
60 majority. How many New Yorkers does it take to change a lightbulb? None of your business
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many Leftie Snowflakes does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None as they are like mushrooms. They would rather be kept in the dark & fed bullshit.
Q. How many Leftwing Snowflakes does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None as they are like mushrooms. They would rather be kept in the dark & fed bullshit.
How many members of Congress does it take to change a lightbulb: 3. Congress presents it. Senate passes it. President signs it.
How many stoners does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother we got lighters
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
how many foxes does it take to change a lightbulb? XD
How many fish does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many dead babies does it take to change a lightbulb? Well it's not 9, because my basement is still dark
You could do Dad jokes ( prob in some book) like what do you call a cartoonist who draws only American Revolutionary War? Yankee Doodle. How many psychologist does it take to change a lightbulb. One. But only if the bulb really wants to change.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
How many #DonaldTrumps does it take to change a lightbulb? You mean there's more than one of him?
How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one so long as the light bulb ﹡wants﹡ to change. Happy Friday.
How many popufurs does it take to change a lightbulb? One they put the bulb in and wait for the world to revolve around them.
#FakeNews Asks: How many urban thugs does it take to change a lightbulb? Judging by how many it took to murder rapper Pop Smoke... five.
How many BBC Employees does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer none as they are not licenced to do it #DefundTheBBC
#TGIF How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
"How many UX writers does it take to change a lightbulb?" I wouldn't know. I'm a content strategist. Heard on @RosenfeldMedia podcast with @awelfle and @mjmetts #uxwriting #ifeelattacked
You didn't say anything about the joke being funny. Let's try this one. How many Trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? Just 1, but people will always ask you if your lightbulb had, you know, The Change.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb
How many inhabitants of Gabriel Chase does it take to change a lightbulb? Technically only one, but Light must re-turn.
How many sharks does it take to change a lightbulb? AQUATIC CREATURES ARE NOT YOUR SLAVES!!!
"How many Northern Californian's does it take to change a lightbulb?" hella. "How long does it take them?" DAYYYYYYS
How many "unarmed public works officials does it take to change a lightbulb None they all got shot performing ill-equiped traffic stops
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many isabellas does it take to change a lightbulb, except the lightbulb is having high hopes for literally no reason and by change I mean stop doing that
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? --> None that's a hardware problem
#UnlikelyIQTestQuestions how many Morons does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many carolina fans does it take to change a lightbulb ? 2001 1 to change the bulb , and 2000 to say “ This is our year!”. I thought this is the year that the McNuggets were gonna win the SeC and get to the CFP! Clemson will just stomp them out then.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just gaslight it.
Disagree. Extremists in any dimension have little sense of humor, because they take themselves waaay too seriously. Q: How many radical-whatevers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That's not funny!!!
"How many ghosts does it take to change a lightbulb?"
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? --> A Brazilian
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
how many xuanwu's of slaughter does it take to change a lightbulb
Winn: How many Alex’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Kara*giggling*: Just one. The real question is, how many ladders does she need? Alex: [splutters offended and starts whacking Kara over the head with a cushion]
Happy birthday! Q. How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A. No one knows. No divorced man has ever been awarded the house!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Q: How many #DoctorWho fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. We fear change.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
So, how many cats does it take to change a lightbulb??
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
How many LAPD Officers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They shoot the room for being black and then arrest the bulb for being broke.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? --> None that's a hardware problem
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many ghosts does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many possessions does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. He prefers to keep people in the dark while he ignores Russian bounties on the heads of American soldiers. #TrumpKnewAndDidNothing
how many deans does it take to change a lightbulb
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven
How many performance artists does it take to change a lightbulb? Dunno. I left before the end. #PopbitchJokeDuJour
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
how many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? fish!
How many rightists does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. One to hoard the lightbulbs, another to gas the poor, and another to pay the news organizations to infer that the poor brought it upon themselves.
How many centrists does it take to change a lightbulb? They'll talk about it for a few hundred years and let you know.
How many leftists does it take to change a lightbulb? One actual leftist to change the lightbulb more efficiently than anyone ever has before and ten thousand performative leftists to tactlessly argue over how it should've been changed differently.
How many blonde girls does it take to change a lightbulb? a whole fuckin village I swear sorry I’m projecting from personal trauma HOWEVER I DONT WANT TO UNDERMINE VICTIMS OF TRUE HATE CRIME. hate crime is a sensitive subject but sometimes we need to get booted up. Yfm?
Here she is...episode 9 of #TheFifteen ‘Going Dark’. How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? Have a listen and find out. Things get spooky in Buxton. Not for the faint hearted! @keironself @Buzz_Magazine https://buzzsprout.com/1086704/4486199-episode-9-going-dark…
That sounds so much like the 'how many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb?' joke
How many dad's does it take to change a lightbulb? One... and one mom to nag him to do it!
"How many Polacks does it take to change a lightbulb? 101. 1 to hold the lightbulb, and 100 to turn the house to unscrew it."
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
@CannabisFairy69 how many Hillsong attendees does it take to change a lightbulb? None.. they trust God will show them the light
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it's fixed and they all sit in the dark applauding.
How many marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They’ll tell the people to do it then the lightbulb won’t arrive due to quota problems.
How many lefties does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter because when it's on there is still noone there Thoughts?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q: how many JK Rowlings does it take to change a lightbulb? A: zero. the ol’ witch prefers to use gaslighting.
How many TERFs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still don't think it needs changing.
Q: how many JK Rowlings does it take to change a lightbulb? A: zero. the lightbulb is trans and changes itself
How many homophobes does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the are afraid of change even if it makes the world a brighter place.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb
"How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?" - One of the questions I probably should've asked before I purchased that lighthouse
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
to comprehend or deal with & make it something funny. Like if I take a job like how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb in a dark room? None, they just beat the room for being black, you know that joke has its genesis in some very serious, very dark shit, &
How many Corbynistas does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're convinced the broken bulb is shining bright, and it would if only everyone would just see it.
How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? 0! We couldn’t figure out how to get it out so we called our landlord.
I like the lightbulb jokes too. E.g. Q. How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Ten. One to put in the new bulb and nine to form a collective to make sure it's done fairly. (After 20 yrs, that joke still cracks me up )
@annettesjl Old Jokes Home Q/ How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ Sorry mate, I don't do lights
How many brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Johnson declares it changed and they sit around clapping in the dark.
How many photographer’s does it take to change a lightbulb? No idea but they'll do it in a flash #photography #joke
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard. #jokes #funny #pun
How many carrot cakes does it take to change a lightbulb? How many carrot cakes can BECOME the lightbulb?!
HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I DON'T KNOW EITHER, BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT (MY ONLY JOKE EVER)
Friend: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Me: None. We don't address hardware issues. Friend: None, they prefer the dark mode. Me:
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many lightbulbs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Emilys does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter, please don't make me do it, two are broke in my ceiling fan and have gotten stuck, and I can't get them out now
How many people in the tRump administration does it take to change a lightbulb. None of them because they are to busy blaming other people for their incompetence and ineptitude to have time to change a lightbulb
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they aren’t the ones that need changing.
How many Evan Hansons does it take to change a lightbulb ? None. The understudy did it
And how many socially distanced wonks does it take to change a lightbulb?
sir that is 2/3 how many joes does it take to change a lightbulb
How many recording engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? #recordingstudio #recordingengineer #studioporn #studiogear
How many Manchester United fans does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t, they just stand around talking about how great the old one was
So how many accountants, insurers, handymen, and lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb Our outside gazebo is now built, giving us some extra seating so we can keep our distance 2M #TandP
Q. How many Stephen Nolan’s does it take to change a lightbulb? A. What do you mean change?
Oh my God what a tedious morning. How many people does it take to change a lightbulb via a conference call?
How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? One to try and fix it, make it better, fail, the rest to blame everyone who voted remain.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many presidents does it take to change a lightbulb?
‘How many Bill Banks does it take to change a lightbulb’ ??
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many bartenders does it take to change a lightbulb ? Bartenders: none, that’s not my fucking side work
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #add #change #bikes #kids #lets #ride
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q: How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, the piano player can do it with their left hand.
This is me everytime I tell the “How many Smiths fans does it take to change a lightbulb” joke x
Yes. And being open to them. Reminds me of the joke: How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but the lightbulb has really got to want to change.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Trumpturds does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. Trump says the bulb was changed while his followers sit in the dark an applaud.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? --> Let's go ride bikes!
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it’s a hardware problem.
How many open mic comics does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but they have to bring 4 friends.
How many professional footballers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Watford players does it take to change a lightbulb?? 11 and they take weeks to do it.
Nope, you are not wrong. He will take credit for anything his little brain thinks up and his cult will believe him. How many #MAGAts does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He will tell them the lights are on and they will sit in the dark
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb?...
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Sorry mate, I don't do lights #PopbitchJokeDuJour
How many PhDs does it take to change a lightbulb? At least 2... (both my missus and me) And it took all afternoon... Bloomin' stripped screw head on an outside light. Even with the right tools it was a pain in the arse.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
@vc has a great joke Q: how many VCs, does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who is the lead?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many churchgoers does it take to change a lightbulb? Find out on tomorrow’s #SundayThought with @TimDaykin1 on @BBCRadioSolent after 6.30am tomorrow. It’s a new thing!
- #GamerMeme courtesy of http://REVMC.NET! - Q: How many #silvers does it take to change a #lightbulb? A: None, they can't even climb the #ladder! #GAMING #NOOBS #NEWBS #OVER9000 #GAMERS #GamersRock #FUNNY #awesome #gamer #gaming #lol #nerd #gfuel #game #meme #dank
15. Hi, my name is Hlovo and I’m depressed 19. How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat the shit out of the room for being black 20. “So what course are you studying?” 26. Lemme bless you with two
How many deepstate cops does it take to change a lightbulb???
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many Bollywood dancers does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently like 114 but the whole town gets done in perfect unison.
How many roaches does it take to change a lightbulb? Can't tell, once the light goes on, they scatter.
how many frogs does it take to change a lightbulb
Its been on for over 1 hr. How many men does it take to change a lightbulb for chrissakes. We need to sleep!
Did ya get the video cover girl Come out of that fort and do some AUM chantin, ya know you'll feel better for it " How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb . Only one but the lightbulb must really want to change"
How many Buckeye football players does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But he gets three hours credit. #gotjokes
I try not to shitpost too often but.. Q: how many Maoists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: one... DIVIDES INTO TWO, TWO DOES NOT COMBINE INTO ONE! REVISIONIST SCU-
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? LOL Wrote my city few weeks ago about streetlight burned out on my street. Is the only one so is pretty dark at night now. After weeks, they finally sent some guys...they walked clockwise round pole, then counterclockwise,,,,,,,,,,
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the family home anyway.
1 A joke as we have a #Brexit GT full of bottom of the barrel jokers pretending to be politicans. How many leavers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just 1. He holds the bulb & waits for the whole to change for him.  Or he doesn't change the light bulb, they are too modern,
How many roaches does it take to change a lightbulb? Nobody knows. Once it turns on they all scatter.
How many Roses does it take to change a lightbulb
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
day 111 of being in quarantine: how many karens’ does it take to change a lightbulb ??
How many hashtags does it take to change a lightbulb? That’s not how it works. First you get it trending. Then it gets picked up by @thejournal_ie. Then it goes on Lunchtime Live to be told that the lightbulb doesn’t want to change. Then we start all over again.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many cabinet members does it take to change a lightbulb?
Joke of the Day How many convents does it take to change a lightbulb?
Want to hear a joke? How many Cowboys fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They don’t change it, they just keep talking about how bright it used to be.
ME MYSELF AND LIES OR ME MYSELF AND I'M INNOCENT.... MAYBE, FAKE BIGLY THE HOAX AND THE WAR ROOM. WHEN KFC SPEAKS....HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I DON'T KNOW EITHER BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT
Q: How many Karens does it take to change a lightbulb? A: I NEED TO SPEAK TO YOUR MANAGER
How many guitar players does it take to change a lightbulb? Want to do it in three to stand there and say they could’ve done it better.
How many Data Scientists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to count how many Data Scientists it takes to change a lightbulb. #datascience #datascientist
How many of them does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because changing it would be too political.
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
dark humor is "how many babies does it take to change a lightbulb? depends on how many babies they use in manufacturing." not being offensive to minorities
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? 3 1 to flick the switch/remove the bulb 2 to try & fit an E27 screw fit into the trusty B22 bayonet socket & then blame the EU & remainers when it won't fit 3 to put the original back in only to find it still works #Brexit
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're used to being kept in the dark.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? --> None that's a hardware problem
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Another (less serious) question to ponder: How many AI Ethicists does it take to change a lightbulb? Always an entertaining if brutal way of isolating what need to be careful of being reducted to
Reminds me of a joke my brother told me last week. How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they would rather beat the room for being black. How come no one lets us Mexicans play uno? Because we steal all the green cards.
How many video editors does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it's going to take a while to render.
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? 3: 1 to write vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many QAnons does it take to change a lightbulb? 3: 1 to write vague "clues", 1 to say the lightbulb's existence is necessary disinformation, and 1 to say "Mom! You didn't pay the deep state electric bill!"
How many [your job title] does it take to change a lightbulb? RT with your own joke!
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q: How many Trump advisors does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The light bulb is fine. Nothing wrong with it at all.
Don’t tell anyone, but I drank the Koolaid a few years ago. But that’s only citizenship - I was born and remain Canadian. BTW, ¿How many marxists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many professional podcasters does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to change the lightbulb, and anoth-... DOODLEOODOO
It perfectly demonstrates the funniest joke about Feminists. Guy: How many Feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Woman: Thats not funny
How many nihilists does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn’t matter #PopbitchJokeDuJour
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to WANT to change!
It's #InternationalJokeDay! So: Q: How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Screw it, we got lighters .
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. It's a hardware problem. Come join us on Hearo with your friends and tell some jokes while laughing and cheering together! #NationalJokeDay #WatchParty
How many truthers does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . Just 1...if the fuckin lightbulb wants to change lmao.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many nihilists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter.
Apt for these times dreadful joke of the day: How many nihilists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many nihilists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter. #dadjokes
How many dancers does it take to change a lightbulb? 5,6,7,8. #dancing #Strictly
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? On this evidence a van load. Surely, the response might have been look mate keep off the footpath and be careful. Bloody fools
We aren't sick for making a joke about a fucked up situation. Humor is defined by something that usually isn't funny, like for example, "How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None they just beat the lightbulb for being black." Humor derives from something that's wrong
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know Trump had seen a false demand and bought 500,000 of them.
You know the saying “how many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb” Well I ask you this, seriously How many thuggish #HKPoliceTerrorists does it take to question a young white woman It takes 8 of these big thuggish police brutally restraining her #HongKongSecurityLaw
How many stuck-at-home families does it take to change a lightbulb? Find out with @EfficiencyDay’s 15 #energyefficiency tips for a socially distanced summer ¬– number seven surprised us! #EEDay2020 https://bit.ly/3dog2NX
How many centrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, they just hold it in place and wait for the world to revolve round them
How many Trump family members does it take to change a lightbulb? They can’t do it – it’s genetic.
8. Changing Bulb How many arms does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trumpers does it take to change a lightbulb?
The phrase "how many men does it take to change a lightbulb" springs, readily, to mind.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many C&W singers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five-1 to do the work, 4 to sing about how much they miss the old one
How many Karen’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Damn you, I have a problem with ladders and can’t breath and I’m calling the police because I feel threatened by you.
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
Your still fucking worried about this!? How many lives have we lost already due to this dumb ass in office? How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Agile Developers does it take to change a lightbulb? It isn't just the lightbulb that needs changing, all the wiring must be redone
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one! All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just beat the room for being black.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many Russian bots that joined Twitter in June and have 1 follower does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? Guess we’re sitting the the dark then
How many people in lockdown does it take to change a lightbulb? Everyone...it’s a real high light! I’ll get my coat. #lockdown
Yeah, definitely. You know the joke: how many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb, right? True
'How many prime ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? Don’t ask me. How many prime ministers does it take to change the reality of women’s lives?'
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb?
Alternate reality: How many Hong Kong protesters does it take to change a lightbulb post-independence? No need, the electricity's been cut.
Not good, but hopefully they will sort it i trust the germans, reminds me of an old joke excuse the kind but its fitting, How many germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One, because ve are efficent and dont make ze jokes
How many nihilists does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes https://ift.tt/3eKLpUb
How many goths does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They prefer sitting in the dark.
how many climate science deniers does it take to change a lightbulb ? None. It's too early to say if the lightbulb needs changing ...
How many steeler fans does it take to change a lightbulb??? None.... they just talk about how good the last six were....
HOWDY Y'ALLLLLL! SAY, HOW MANY SQUIRRELS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB?@
How many Vogons does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dead hookers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to...WANT to change
Yeah. Comes from an old joke : how many people with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh look, a squirrel! In addition to her other mental issues, my wife is ADHD and that one pisses me off.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Q:How many torrid does it take to change a lightbulb A: We’ll wait for Marcus Rashford to do it for us.
How many MRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? Just the one to hold it still and the world revolves around them.
How many nihilists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter. #jokes #HappyMonday
How many literalists does it take to change a lightbulb? One.
"How many Prime Minister does it take to change a lightbulb?" Great piece on gender roles, #Care work and #Corona https://amp.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2020/jun/29/tony-blair-wont-do-housework-but-boris-johnson-will-do-press-ups-spare-me-these-macho-politicians?utm_term=Autofeed&CMP=twt_gu&utm_medium=&utm_source=Twitter&__twitter_impression=true…
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadJokes #RandomJokesIO
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Incoming country music dad joke: How many country singers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to sing about how much they miss the old one.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many of our stunning & brave #millennial rioting warriors does it take to change a lightbulb? One. The pronouned one just holds it in the socket & the world revolves around them... #zoomers #clowns #idiots #AllLivesMatter #auspol
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change. No matter how many experts u follow, how many therapists and counselors u see, or how many friends and relatives support u, you are alone and responsible for the change you make.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat the room for being black. Old joke, dark humour, in these times it fits great, but people get offended by it pretty easily, more often than not, the ones that get offended are not blacks.Get a sense of humor
JOKE OF THE DAY : How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #humor #memesdaily #rofl #jokeoftheday #funny #lol #lmao #happy #followme #love #likeall #joke
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many dyslexic does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
“How many @ADL officials does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to change the lightbulb, and 99 to go on talk shows and explain that burnt out bulbs are the result of rising White Supremacism under Trump”.
So. How many antifas does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They read by the light of locally owned burning buildings started by BLMers. How am I doing so far?
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, Trump says it’s fixed and everyone sits in the dark and applauds. #AmericaOrTrump #TrumpVirus #COVID #ripdonaldtrump
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
The guitars on #underwatermoonlight remind me of one of my favourite jokes: Q: How many members of REM does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Two. One to change the bulb and one to flip the @RobynHitchcock record. #TimsTwitterListeningParty
How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? No idea. But where do you get your protein.. Needless to say I'm only about 50 percent vegan now..#meat
how many singles does it take to change a lightbulb
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? They don't, they just beat the holy hell out of the room for being black, plant crack on it, then bounce
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None they’d rather stay in the dark.
He means how many absolute end Sony fanboys does it take to change a lightbulb whilst sucking each other’s tiny little stump dicks?
How many Freudo-Marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to seize the means of production, one to murder the union labor, and one to hold the penis. I mean the mother! I MEAN THE LADDER!
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Often depends on how much the "old actors" are ready to change and if they miscalculate or not. How many Buddhist monks does it take to change a lightbulb ? Only one provided the bulb wants to be changed. Valid for buildings, political systems. Source of Revolution if stiffness
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
“How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb?” "Replace a lightbulb.” *screams*
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? NOT ALL MEN!!!
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one - but the bulb really has to want to change. Don’t get me started on lightbulb jokes.....
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
how many joker fans does it take to change a lightbulb? 7, one to actually change it and 6 to argue about whether the overall message is that with more funding in electronics this could be prevented or that woman bad
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all use gaslighting.
how many karens does it take to change a lightbulb??
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many dancers does it take to change a lightbulb? 5, 6, 7, 8
How many McDonalds workers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they can't climb the ladder.
the SPectacles? Balls deep in Brexit oily? He's pff to Blaize glasgows triandafilia? she had class and glass, careful of angels, which shoulder sits they, now, now, how many policemans balls does it take to change a lightbulb?
It's like that old joke. How many Liverpool fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just all sit around talking about how good the old lightbulb was
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
Old joke: "How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All she has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around her."
How many Jack Posobiecs does it take to change a lightbulb? (just kidding, you're awesome)
How many dull people does it take to change a lightbulb? One.
How many Spaniards does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan.
I can't believe I got fired from my job at the calendar factory. All I did was take a day off! @TomFulop How many paranoids does it take to change a lightbulb? Who wants to know?
@barbatosalv AS in Q. 'How many muzzle zealots does it take to change a lightbulb?' A. (mumbled through rectangle of soggy germ-infested cloth) 'That's not funny'
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? What they call "change" I call programming. It's an old tactic.
It depends on the bridge. There will be points set along the map that require a number of ants to complete the crossing. In related news, how many humans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? --> A Brazilian
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
HOW MANY MECHANICAL ENGINEERS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB?
Symptoms of Coronavirus- I was very ill last December and symptomatic; my sense of taste changed and fruit tasted ‘brown’! I was a clean eater so I’ve been struggling. How many docs, Psychs and Neuropsychiatrist does it take to change a Lightbulb?
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Banana
I thought it was going to be how many Palestinians does it take to change a lightbulb..
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? --> Let's go ride bikes!
#HappyFriday! How many SEO experts does it take to change a lightbulb, light bulb, light, bulb, lamp, lighting, switch? Enjoy the weekend!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One..... or two?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Keir Starmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but only if the Israel lobby tell him to do it.
Reminds me of the question, “How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t! They hide the bulbs, blame the dark on the Democrats, hide the ladder, and send thoughts and prayers to those who trip in the dark
#WeWantJoe ?? Question for Joe Biden: How many dementia patients does it take to change a lightbulb? Joe's answer: ...To get to the other side.
"How many gods does it take to change a lightbulb? None. A human changes the bulb, and the gods take credit for it."
How many of the master race does it take to change a lightbulb?
I vote yes on that because: How many Virginians does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to change the bulb and two to talk about how much better the old one was.
Q How many BLM supporters does it take to change a lightbulb.. A How dare you ask that question you racist bastard.
Q: “How many Lefties does it take to change a lightbulb?” A: “One, the leftist holds it up and the world spins”
How many cows does it take to change a lightbulb? — Hmm 2?
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but the lightbulb has to Really Want to Change.
Y'all gotta start an LED education program for boomers. Just bought a house and 99% of the bulbs were over 60watts. Now answering the age old question: how many olds does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, they dgaf
Q: How many Libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 2. One to change the lightbulb. The other to write an article denouncing the State's encroachment into the concept of darkness and how a truly free State would be perpetually light eliminating the need for lightbulbs
Was one of those questions, “How many of you DOES it take to change a lightbulb?”
Oh I just looked again and got it : “but her emails!” Funny. I’m a feminist, you know we’re humor-impaired (How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? -That’s not funny)
Was one of those questions, “How many of you DOES it take to change a lightbulb?”
"How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian" #100DaysOfCode #GeorgeFloyd #programming #CodeNewbie
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One..... or two?
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one? or two? One... or two?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One..... or two?
How many misanthropes does it take to change a lightbulb? One, you idiots!
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but it takes everyone to ask if its had, ya know, the change
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? --> None that's a hardware problem
How many children does it take to change a lightbulb? Gotta be more than 8 because my basement is still dark.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Trump tells them "I fixed it", and his conservative cult following clap and cheer as they're standing in the dark.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change. We do not make this decision, Dean. If they cannot find it in their heart to see different people as equals, we’re not going to persuade them.
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Trump tells them "I fixed it" and they all applaud and cheer as they're standing in the dark.
how many Truthers does it take to change a lightbulb?
@ProjectLincoln How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they sit in the dark and trump tells them it's fixed
It only took 15 FBI agents to figure this out... how many FBI agents does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. It’s not the lightbulb that needs changing.
question: how many game journos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many magicians does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many carnivores does it take to change a lightbulb? None.... they prefer to stay in the dark
How many workers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one with the Toyota AICHI Scissor Lift! #warehouse #Lift #lighting
Love ya back. Agreed! Trump is not a “whatever is politically expedient” -Lindsay he is a calculating - Attorney. Seeking his political advantage. 15 FBI guys- reminds me of the jokes of how many does it take to change a lightbulb! NASCAR is not for America. JESUS REIGNS
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many FBI agents does it take to change a lightbulb???
How many FBI agents does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many FBI agents does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many persona fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, one to complain and ask for a switch port.
Q: How many centrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Centrists never change anything. Electoral politics aren't everything, but @marcelaforny @JabariBrisport @phara4assembly @ZohranKMamdani @SamelysLopez @AOC & @JuliaCarmel__ are in this fight with us.
How many Russians does it take to change a lightbulb? F*cking zero, obviously. That country has had the lights off upstairs since C/Kathy died.
Which reminds me of: "How many germans does it take to change a lightbulb..."
'How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but, the lightbulb has to want to change.'
How many Freudian psychoanalists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to hold the penis. I mean father. I mean ladder!
How many stuck-at-home families does it take to change a lightbulb? 15 tips via @EfficiencyDay #energyefficiency #EEDay2020 http://bit.ly/3dog2NX
How many Irishman does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They certainly not get the house anyway.
How many ISTPs does it take to change a lightbulb? One. You need your sink fixed too? Yeah, same one. You need a blacksmith? Call the same ISTP. The ISTP owns a hardware store so visit them whenever you need anything. Literally anything. They have more lightbulbs.
You know the joke: How many rabbis does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? But we have 6 committees working on it.
12,000? Are you really that stupid? YES! Yes you are! “Your” father hides in a basement for no reason. How many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb in the basement? None, they’re in the basement hiding not changing lightbulbs.
How many Social Justice Workers does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't be silly. SJW's can't change a fucking thing. XD XD XD
How many brave souls does it take to change a lightbulb at the top of a transmission tower?
I find this more amusing than concerning. Also reflective of Twitter and the media: rarely a place for informed discussion, mostly being just garbage As I often joke, how many Twitter users does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question. Twitter users can't change anything
Bobbie...I’m sure you know this...but nobody cares. It’s meat. We are animals. We like to eat meat. That’s been the case for all of human history and it will be the case forever. It’s like you want me to ask “how many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb?”
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They just sit in the dark until a Democrat changes it, and then claim "IT WAS RIGGED!"
Twitter! If the question is How many folklorists does it take to change a lightbulb? What's the answer...? Today's #EverydayLore post is now up... #Folklore #amwriting #joke #comedy #WimbledonRecreated #MondayBlogs #Wimbledon #OTD
How many silver players does it take to change a lightbulb??? None, they can't climbe the ladder.
Q: how many new yorkers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: FIVE, 1 to hold the bulb and 4 to turn the chair.
Apropos joke: how many #FloridaPeople does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to hold the bulb and the other four to spin the room.
nene: how many hanakos does it take to change a lightbulb? kou, totally serious: just one. the real question is, how many ladders does he need? hanako: [smol angry noises]
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many submissives does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but if you want to use it afterwards you'll also need a switch.
How many trans people does it take to change a lightbulb? Fifty, one to change it, 49 to tweet about how courageous they are.
Q. How many PLAGF Soldiers does it take to change a lightbulb. A. None. They all work at Global Times anyways
How many Gaeler’s does it take to change a lightbulb? We’ve agreed a deal with a Real Estate Investment Trust that allows them to build housing units on state land to rent back to us and once they’ve stripped us bare they’ll send us a contract for a new lightbulb, in 2040.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently more than 6200 and 6 COVID infected advance men. Lights out in Tulsa.
how many shots does it take to change a lightbulb? none, but she's also been on a regular estrogen schedule :D
how many shots does it take to change a lightbulb? answer: just one
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? 3. 1 to pay an immigrant to change the lightbulb. 2 to lecture you about how the immigrant is stealing your lightbulb-changing job.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Helen Whately’s and Liz Truss’s does it take to change a lightbulb #ToryShambles #ToryLiesCostLives
How many football commentators does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: one to change it, and the other one to talk about how great lightbulbs were in the 90s. Did you know that ATV didn’t actually lose the ITV Midlands franchise? That’s my audition. Do I pass muster?
dad joke from my dad to celebrate Father’s Day how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? one. but the bulb has to want to change
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently more than 6200 and 6 COVID infected advance men. lights out in Tulsa
How many close to minimum wage workers does it take to change a lightbulb
Q: How many Globalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 1٪
How many Chazzers does it take to change a lightbulb
Lights Out In Tulsa! How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently more than 6200 and 6 COVID infected campaign advance men.
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? FORE! Happy Father’s Day to the guys with all the dad jokes.
Q: How many boring guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently more than 6200 and 6 COVID infected advance men.
How many atheists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Lol. How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Nine. They say it violates their rights as Americans to aimlessly wander in the darkness!
Happy Father’s Day. Here’s my literary Dad joke: How many editors does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
How many dad’s does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 : to sit in the couch drink beer and complain about the The electric bill #KingOfDadJokes #BudweiserSweepstakes @BudweiserUSA
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. She stands on a chair holds the lightbulb still and the whole world just revolves around her.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? --> A Brazilian
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many political commentators does it take to change a lightbulb? Hard to say exactly, but what I do know, based on government sources that I’ve spoken to, is that if the Greens vote no there’ll no lightbulbs anywhere ever again and we’ll all die in the dark. By Monday.
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? None they just beat the room because it’s black.
2 it's kind of like the how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb joke, it's not downplaying police brutality, it's just trying to make people laugh in a time of darkness
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? 1, let grandma get up there and do it
How many polacks does it take to change a lightbulb? Three; one to hold the lightbulb and two to turn the ladder.
Being familiar with psychology helps. Psychologists generally don't work with people who don't wanna work themselves. Good ol' joke about how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? ... ... ... Fish.
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? Democrats don't change lightbulbs, they break them. Soros provides the bricks.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? 12 One to change it, and 11 to stand around and talk about how hard it used to be. Happy Birthday! #VeteransAgainstTrump
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Q: How many stepdads does it take to change a lightbulb? A: As many as it takes to finally give your mom the happiness she deserves. #FathersDay
#DadOfDadJokes #BudweiserSweepstakes How many Dads does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer is 10! One to hold the lightbulb and 9 to drink until the room spins!
How many loving critics does it take to change a lightbulb? Dunno. But there's a whole room of peepur arguing over who qualifies.
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? The correct term is 'replace', actually.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to buy the lightbulb and a thousand to test the outlet with a fork.
I've got a joke, how many iron 4 players does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows because they can't climb a ladder.
How many #ShitEatingDeplorables does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're all too busy sucking @realDonaldTrump's cock.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them he fixed it so they all sit in the dark applauding him.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many tRump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he tells them it is fixed they sit in the dark and applaud!
How many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb? 3. One to hold the lightbulb and two to turn the ladder
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? --> A Brazilian
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? ONE. He holds the bulb while the world spins around him.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
so how many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? 50! One to hold the bulb, the other 49 to turn the house around
Q: How many SciCommers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 4: 1 to handle the bulb, 1 to hold the ladder, 1 to manage the liquid nitrogen, and 1 to narrate the science of what’s happening for the audience.
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? --> None that's a hardware problem
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Vietnam vets does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many category theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? Bulb is a free Boolean algebra, defined simply as an adjunction between Set and the category of Boolean algebras and their homomorphisms. This generalizes to any algebraic structure definable in universal algebra.
How many GNU programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? I'd just like to interject for a moment. What you're referring to as Lightbulb, is in fact, GNU/Lightbulb, or as I've recently taken to calling it, GNU plus Lightbulb. Lightbulb is not an illumination system unto itse
How many Idris programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? That depends... They'll also need to prove their procedure will turn the light on, which of course requiring proving that n+m == m+n, among other lemmas.
How many Urbit programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, Urbit doesn't implement lightbulb changing yet, but in principle it could be a great foundation for building a lightbulb replacement system. The transactional event log solves many traditionally difficult prob
How many JavaScript programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? "001", until downloading the left-pad module fails.
How many Haskell programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the program won't change the bulb until you try to turn it on.
How many Ethereum enthusiasts does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Vitalik.
How many BitCoin maximalists does it take to change a lightbulb? 51%.
How many 'liberals' does it take to change a lightbulb?
A special joke for Astro/physics folk & #WorldRecordLight: Q: How many radio astronomers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: “We’re not really into that shortwave stuff.”
Q: How many neoliberals does it take to change a lightbulb? A: “Let the market decide.”
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb and one to hold the penis. I mean mother I MEAN LADDER
How Many Dadbod's Does It Take To Change a Lightbulb | !Data !Youtube
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Q: How many Antifa members does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Zero. They get BLM members to change it for them.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just shoot the room for being black
how many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? none! their butler changes the lightbulb
That's like asking how many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb.
how many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? doesn't matter how many, they're too busy beating up the room for being too black.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
But her emails? She is a Trump, not possible to embarrass her. Can you imagine when Trumps were kids and they broke something? How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? ....... But I didn't break it!
How many soft #robots does it take to change a lightbulb? @sjtu1896 @ZJU_China – Find out: http://ow.ly/Ynhv50Abc6v
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many transgender people does it take to change a lightbulb ? 1 but they must live in the dark for three years to make sure they really want the lightbulb changed. Then they must ask the opinions of two random electricians just to make sure it really needs changing.
How many goalies does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one...did you think goalies were stupid or something?!??
UGC concept #43: Lit Idea Price: 50R$ Type: Hat accessory Description: How many robloxians does it take to change a lightbulb? John - Credit to @abjok99 for helping me with normals and @gamer_yonder for the idea!
How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb 2 one to flick the lighter and one to roll it fast and nice we do it old school candles or glow sticks if the light is blown it's a joke I'm working on tried it and failed
Aaah! So changing a lightbulb is much more dangerous... The things that can happen to the Changers Of Lightbulbs, are just incredible! ...and led to the philosophical question & pop culture joke: "How many (_____insert profession here_____) does it take to change a lightbulb?"
Yeah, yeah you’re ‘joking’ but we’re back to the point where I wonder why Lucy can’t change her own lightbulbs. Maybe this joke should start with “How many women does it take to change a lightbulb?”
how many eric trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just talk about change
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Q. How many Oxford dons does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Why would you want to change something that has worked so well for so long?
OK I have one joke I remember. How many Puerto Ricans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan.
How many electricians does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump just says it is done and the rest sit in the dark and applaud him.
How many Boris Johnsons does it take to change a lightbulb? Now is not the time to complain about being in the dark. Labour don’t even want you to have a lightbulb. We will have a world-beating lightbulb. Let us not dally, vacillate or lollygag! The British People agree. #PMQs
How Many Dogs Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? BULLDOG: Is there squirrel chasing involved? HOUND DOG: ZZZZZZzzzzz.z.z.z..z..z..z…z SHIH TZU – Who me change a light bulb? We are royal decedents and we have staff to do that for us.
How Many Dogs Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? YORKSHIRE TERRIER: I'm over qualified, have the boxer do it! AUSTRALIAN SHEPHERD: First, I'll put all the light bulbs in a little circle.. OLD ENGLISH SHEEP DOG: Light bulb? I'm sorry, but I don't see a light bulb?
How Many Dogs Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? CHIHUAHUA: Yo quiero Taco Bulb. IRISH WOLFHOUND: Can somebody else do it? I've got this hangover…. POINTER: I see it, there it is, there it is, right there…. GREYHOUND: It isn't moving. Who cares?
How Many Dogs Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? GOLDEN RETRIEVER: Sun is shining, the day is young, we've got our whole lives ahead of us, and you're inside worrying about a stupid burned out bulb? BORDER COLLIE: Just one. Then I'll replace any wiring that's not up to code.
How many Chopistans does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to hold the bulb and three to turn the ladder. All I can think of is lightbulb jokes after seeing this. http://jokes4us.com/peoplejokes/lightbulbjokes.html…
#WednesdayMotivation How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? #WednesdayWisdom #wednesdaymorning
How many TD’s does it take to change a lightbulb? We await the outcome of the 73 reviews, 7 commissions, 6 task forces, 4 committees, 3 citizen assemblies, 2 working groups, 2 forums, 2 councils, 2 agencies, a court & a expert group in the PfG.
Hey, how many #GOPCowards does it take to change a lightbulb? zero, none of them will get up on a ladder unless big daddy trump okays it!
Lol how many protestors does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows, they couldn't figure out the ladder!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q: How many @melbournefc coaches does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They're happy to live in Norm Smith's shadow. #AFLDonsDees
HOW MANY OPTIMISTS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB?
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
“How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?” None. Trump says it’s changed and they all agree in the dark. #StupidTrumpRallyQuestions
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
#CiscoLive Q: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, that's a hardware problem.
How many crime writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but you have to give it a good twist at the End
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they beat the shit out of the darkness.
I was also present. How many Gomati's does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows. They're all pretty dim. #Libya
Regarding the main/master discussion, I couldn’t help but think about this old gem: “How many Microsoft employees does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadjokes
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many GOP “elected” officials does it take to change a lightbulb? None...they’re still in the dark.
The classic example I always come back to is: How many Doctor Who fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Change? CHANGE?! Why should it change? It's been doing PERFECTLY well for x many years and now you want to change it?!
How many Goths does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many people who are incapable of holding a ladder does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? One... One... One... two... one... two... two....
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently more than one might think, given the fact they need around 20 cops to arrest one single unarmed person. What the fuck is wrong with your country, dear Americans?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Chazholes does it take to change a lightbulb? They can barely wipe themselves let alone operate a ladder or scissors. Can't change a bulb by screaming baseless insults at it. Pretty clear that none of these children have actual life skills.
How many karens does it take to change a lightbulb none cuz they would want to speak to the manager lol
The one I know: Q: How many Karens does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That's not funny!
How many anti-vaxxer's kids does it take to change a lightbulb? ... coffins have lightbulbs?
How many “SENDmum99083733” does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer is 6. One to complain about how the bulb affects their carbon footprint and 5 to stand around bullying ppl on twitter because they smell like school milk and can’t read. And we’re still in the dark!
@FLDEO wow, called in early enough to get a representative and still got hung up on. I'm sure I'll log in at 8 and see nothing has changed....I mean, how many "supervisors" does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many artists does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to write a poem about darkness. 1 to sing for help by the window. 1 to roll all around the floor. 1 to act like the lightbulb. 1 to provide the sombre music. And a technician.
How many professors does it take to change a lightbulb? Professor: Change? The punks want to rip it up. Peter Brown, my intellectual hero, is “hollow” because not political! Fake radicals & egotists sing, Pak, you owe me, mother f’er.
So? How many does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to hold the bulb and 4 to turn the stool.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? --> None that's a hardware problem
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many cops does it take to change a lightbulb they don’t, they just shoot the room for being black and tell it to stop resisting
How many CHAZ anarchists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many feds does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat the room for being black.
How many second violinists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they can’t get that high.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many luthiers does it take to change a lightbulb? Three: one to do it and two to argue about how Stradivari would have done it."
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJoke #randomJokes
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That's a hardware problem.
How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, if the lightbulb is truly ready to change.
How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? https://facebook.com/194640613953524/posts/3014268615324029/?sfnsn=mo…
How many CHAZ does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently two dozen. A dozen to figure out the ladder and another dozen to figure out how to change the bulb.
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One or two? One... ...or two?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian, Baby
how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? trick question, they’re all afraid of change!
How many people with dissociative identity disorder does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Oxford academics does it take to change a lightbulb? Change?
without a shadow of a doubt but when confronted about it then like to pull out the..... Q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: none no none likes to be known as a racist ....card and whine about it
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it's fixed and the rest just sit in the dark and applauded.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
how many waddle dees does it take to change a lightbulb?
haha, however the new breed of Essex joke is now the Essex tories. how many Essex tories does it take to change a lightbulb 6, 4 to hold the ladder, one to climb the ladder, one to crowdfund a engineer to come out and change it for them!!!
FINALLY. the answer to "how many ali's does it take to change a lightbulb" !! (the answer may surprise you!)
How many Racists does it take to change a lightbulb and why is the answer idiots?
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many bootlickers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it has to want to change.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
Only one, but they have to get the destination right, or things get weird How many time-travelers does it take to change a lightbulb? How many time-travelers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Freuidians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and the other to hold the penis. .......Ladder, I meant ladder
So how many CHAV citizens DOES it take to change a lightbulb? So glad I wasn't there
How many Critical Race Theorists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many liberal anarchists does it take to change a lightbulb? All of em!
How many Doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 holds the bulb; two others to spin the chair he is standing on.
How many ------ does it take to change a lightbulb?
Omg, is this a set up for one of those "how many does it take to change a lightbulb" jokes?
How many chazzers does it take to change a lightbulb? sadly we will never know, they first have to go to college to learn how to use a ladder.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter, they'll never get it done.
How many CHAZ soy boys does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh .... about 20 ish.
#AnarchySucks All that comes to mind is, “how many anarchists/protestors does it take to change a lightbulb?” #NotTheAnswer
How many Canadians does it take to change a lightbulb? 100,000. That's how many signatures are needed so the government can hire a member of an aggrieved group for $10 million to change it.
how many birds does it take to change a lightbulb??? im being serious someone help me
How many ants does it take to change a lightbulb? #CiberneticoPt1
How many Antifa does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many CHAZ citizens does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many Antifans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bottom feeding rapists does it take to change a lightbulb
“Supposedly peaceful football hooligans”. How many oxymorons does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Football Lads Alliance goons does it take to change a lightbulb 100 1 to change the lightbulb and 99+ others to live stream it on FB with their iPhones.
Looking at that clip makes me think of the old joke: Q. "How many Football Lads does it take to change a lightbulb?" A. Ten. One to change the bulb, and Nine to whip their phone cameras out and film it.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
how many mentally ill libs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many #CHAZ residents does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many CSMs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many sith members does it take to change a lightbulb? None they will just keep recruiting more to do it
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many lightbulbs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, feminists ain‘t changin nothing
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the family home in any case.
i dont know. how many daniel radcliffes does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: “How many Chicago School economists does it take to change a lightbulb?” A: “None. If the lightbulb needed changing, the market would have already done it.”
How many Huns does it take to change a lightbulb? None....they prefer to live in the Dark Ages!. https://extra.ie/2020/06/12/sport/soccernews/linfield-jersey-ulster-volunteer-force/amp…
How many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? ALL LIGHTBULBS MATTER. *Room remains dark for eternity*
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? Too many
How many corgi dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one corgi to loudly bark and be annoying enough for their owner to come over and see the broken lightbulb.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many designers does it take to change a lightbulb? Does it have to be a lightbulb? post: https://bit.ly/2MBMXnd #quoteoftheday #designthinking #ideas
#BadJokeFriday How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb ? 8, One to change it and seven to wonder if the bulb really wants to change !
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven. #BadJokeFriday #1Pun #oldbutgold
How many midfielders does it take to change a lightbulb (or possession)
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb ? Only one. The lightbulb has to want to change
How many Devin Nunes’s does it take to change a lightbulb? MOO BITCH!!
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We're good at that kind of stuff and don't have a sense of humour.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
This is not a #Subtweet :D "How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him."
How many bears in lockdown does it take to change a lightbulb. Ted is finding out the answer is one - obviously - in today’s #SoloLockdown window adventure.
there goes a funny joke How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many lead singers does it take to change a lightbulb? one - they hold up the lightbulb and the universe revolves around them.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many HR people does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer - one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change.
Ridiculously, mine is what I think is the best joke ever. It’s clever it’s beautifully crafted. It’s the funniest. Q. How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. A fish. Genius.
How many Political Correspondents does it take to change a lightbulb? Yes, the electorate voted for change. But we don’t know what type of change and how much of it they really want. It’ll be interesting to see if the lightbulb is included in the Program for Government.
How many children does it take to change a lightbulb? Gotta be more than 7 because my basement is still dark.
Is that a variant on changing the lightbulb? Q: How many TyrantLickers does it take to change a lightbulb at the Reich House? A: None. Tyrant will say that it's already been changed and the TyrantLickers will do nothing. Oh and it's the greatest and most wonderful light ever.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Four, one to smash it with a club, and three to watch him do it and not tell him that what he’s doing is absolutely not right.
Dr. P: Do you know how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Me:..... Dr. P: It takes one lightbulb to want to change!
I’d just like to apologise for my “how many women does it take to change a lightbulb” joke back in 2007. It was not only misogynistic but offensive to electricians. I have donated my home and all it’s belongings too charity and renamed the street
how many gays does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Meghan McCains does it take to change a lightbulb?!
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? --> Oh --> it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Luoluo: How many Zhennan’s does it take to change a lightbulb?  Yaochen: Just one, the real question is how many ladders does he need?  Zhennan:
How many velociraptors does it take to change a lightbulb?
What's really funny to me about the amount of times @louisvillemayor has stepped in shit since the protests began is that he has paid staff to write and tweet was he says. And it's still awful! How many former CJ reporters does it take to change a lightbulb...
How many #Senditin executives does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Darrens does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer - just one as the whole world revolves around him.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many #TikTok lobbyists does it take to change a lightbulb? 2, one to change it and one to send a secure cable message back to #China’s #PeoplesLiberationArmy #MinistryOfStateSecurity confirming https://bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-11-12/tiktok-revamps-lobbying-as-washington-targets-chinese-ownership… https://realcleardefense.com/articles/2017/11/23/chinese_state_sponsored_hacking_112675.html…
Just for @ActualTriton , because he's the only one who answered. How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, Germans are efficient and don't have any humor. Badumm ts
How many germans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb ? One, because all the others suffer from vertigo.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just the one, but the lightbulb must really want to change. #MyTherapistWouldSay
How many museum preparators does it take to change a lightbulb? Let’s shed some light on a behind-the-scenes responsibility of our Prep Dept: ensuring artwork is properly lit! This is much more than just making sure there is a bulb pointed at everything in the museum.
My favorite joke: How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 One to change the lightbulb and one to tell you they’re vegan.
How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? -- Who cares? They never get the house anyway. #Joke It's a joke! Geeze
Q: How many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: All lightbulbs matter.
Reminds me of the old joke: 'How many Oxford dons does it take to change a lightbulb?' 'What is this "change?"' Unfair to Oxford, but a fair representation of this idiot's view of history.
genuine question, how many kyries does it take to change a lightbulb? — FHSDSHFHSDHFH probably one, but the true question is... how long would it take her? https://curiouscat.qa/tealattesweets/post/1108810376…
steven: how many ryans does it take to change a lightbulb? shane: just one. the real question is, how many ladders does he need? ryan: ryan: YOU-
its does make you go funny. You need a lightbulb so things can see the top and avoid crashing into it. How many deans does it take to change a lightbulb?
This is becoming the new form of the “how many [type of doctors] does it take to change a lightbulb?” joke. I’m lucky that in my field, I am usually dealing with people more tech savvy than I am (yay pediatrics!)
Q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: none no one likes to be known as a racist
How many freemasons does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many groundhogs does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, the other to hide from it’s shadow. (I asked Alexa, it’s the best she had lol)
cw// dark humor, police brutality (sort of) I think this joke is relevant How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb None They just beat the room for being black
How many NYPD does it take to change a lightbulb ? Doesn't matter; however many are there, they trash the room cause it is dark
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb ? None, they prefer Gas-Lighting.
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb. Answer: NONE! Can't find any Democrat that will work!
#Joke How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. 21:38:01
How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? There’s one in the Oval Office that’s too dim to work right.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We are efficient and don't have humor.
How many #FBI Agents does it take to change a lightbulb? Between 2 and 500, depending on the perimeter and how long it takes the bulb to surrender.
How many philosophers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 3. One to change it and the other two to argue whether the lightbulb really exists.
how many economists does it take to change a lightbulb NONE because they are to busy with far left activism TO WORRY ABOUT LIGHT BULBS
How many teenage girls does it take to change a lightbulb? Eleven. One to change it, and ten to take pics for the Instagram story.
q. how many polish people does it take to change a lightbulb? a. two. one to change the lightbulb, and one to stabilize the ladder. safety first! #blacklaughsmatter #fixingracism
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many philosophers does it take to change a lightbulb?.... none. They’re not really into that sort of thing. If it’s that dark, light a candle - Phil Cornwell Laughter - Creating a happier world every day by sharing #jokes and other #humor Photo by Mike Labrum on Unsplash
How many Scousers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Hang on, where's me fuckin' lightbulb gone?!!" #Liverpool
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many psychtherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but the lightbulb has really to want to change
Lightbulb jokes anybody? Starter for 10: How many Marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! The lightbulb has in itself the seeds of it’s own revolution
How many Dads does it take to change a lightbulb? Who left the damn light on?!?!?
How many Labour politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? It's not our job to change lightbulbs. Were sticking to our anti-Indy stance and the lightbulb will have to change itself.
How many Labour politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Lisa Nandy: I have no idea
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat the room for being black.
How many witches does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. They change them into frogs. https://punsandoneliners.com/randomness/halloween-jokes/… #HalloweenJokes #Jokes #Humour #Halloween
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? (Fish)
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump just declares it's been changed and the GOP sits in the dark and applauds.
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many Benedict Donalds does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb ? None they just beat up the room for being black lmao
@Bungie how many warminds does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many female singers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they beat the room for being black
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?none,they beat the room for being black
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
comprehend or deal with & make it something funny. Like if I take a job like how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb in a dark room? None, they just beat the room for being black, you know that joke has its genesis in some very serious, very dark shit, & it's
Like if I take a job like how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb in a dark room? None, they just beat the room for being black, you know that joke has its genesis in some very serious, very dark shit, & it's not making light of the fact that people have
Together we will be unstoppable. How many 2D's does it take to change a lightbulb.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . #selfportrait #photography #mr2dphotography #pursuitofportraits #portraitclub… https://instagram.com/p/CBF3oqAgyId/?igshid=1s6wgxuxsd0eo…
How many protesters does it take to change a lightbulb??? All of them because half scream at the light while the other half destroy the building How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?? 4 1 to change it 3 to beat the room while it’s dark
Is that blood coming from the guys head? Q- How many rascist police does it take to change a lightbulb? A- The other 80% of them.
How many photographers does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. 1 to change the bulb, 99 to say "I could have done that".
The good ol' question of "How many [X] does it take to change a lightbulb?" comes to mind. Here? One. With balls of steel.
Snap! How many riot cops does it take to change a lightbulb? They ain't gonna change it: they want to keep their crimes in the dark.
How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? Only 1. Just a shame the old bulb wasn't broken and now he's thrown it away he doesn't have anything to replace it with. #Brexit #ToldYouSo
How many Brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? Only 1. Just a shame the old bulb wasn't broken and now he's thrown it away he doesn't have anything to replace it with.
; how many presidents does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they’ll just beat the room for being black
How many American police does it take to change a lightbulb..... Fuck knows, as they smash the shit out of the bulbs b4 they even get them out of the packaging ......
How many corpses does it take to change a lightbulb? Well it's not 6,because the light in my basement is still not working.
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the lightbulb in place and one to drink until the room spins.
How many Freudian analysts does it take to change a lightbulb? 2: 1 to screw in the lightbulb, and 1 to hold the penis... i mean ladder.
How many Police does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat up the room for being black.
How many corpses does it take to change a lightbulb?
suffering, because laughter is this great transcendent tool we have where we can take something that is bitter & diffecult to comprehend or deal with & make it something funny. Like if I take a job like how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb in a dark room?
how many four kinnies does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Fucking all of them.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? We don't know because they turned off their body cams. #BlackLivesMatter
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb. None, it must first want to change itself.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just shoot up the room for being dark.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? 7. Two to harass the bulb for being broke, two to beat up the room for being black, one to plant the drugs, and two to watch without doing anything to stop the rest. #BLUEFALL #ACAB
Lobotomy Corp: How many Clerks does it take to change a lightbulb
How many council workers does it take to change a lightbulb when they're working as professional mercenaries?
Some offensive jokes like: "How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter, they'll just shoot the dark." are funny cause there is a grain of truth in them and some people find it easier to deal with difficult topics through humour.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? No idea they are too busy beating up unarmed citizens.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many riggers does it take to change a lightbulb sort of thing
How many Martin Daubney's does it take to change a lightbulb? Who?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
have where we can take something that is bitter & diffecult to comprehend or deal with & make it something funny. Like if I take a job like how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb in a dark room? None, they just beat the room for being black, you know that ...
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many LA police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? Six. They don't actually change the bulb; they just beat the room for being dark.
How many Donald Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Fuck Donald Trump.
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE, Because they’re all afraid of change.
How many reckless idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? The entire United states military
#EXPOSEANTIFA How many ANTIFA members does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many emos does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all sit in the dark and cry.
I love Polish people, but this reminds me of a Polack joke I heard as a child. How many Polacks does it take to change a lightbulb? If it were Cuomo and DeBlasio, that lightbulb would still not be changed.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many Whataboutery’s does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Whataboutery changes f#ck all and is a tool to excuse greed, bias, prejudice and or just plain old ‘I’m Alright, Jack’ laziness.
You people are like sheep being led to slaughter. How many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb? Lol
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one.
How many super saiyans does it take to change a lightbulb? I WILL NOT BE A VICTIM!
How many UT Freshman does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it's a sophomore course. #HORNSDOWN #BoomerSooner
I couldn’t help thinking, how many men does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many homophobes does it take to change a lightbulb ? None. They fear change, even if it can make the world a brighter place. P.S- Homosexuality isn't against nature, the religious practices that violates the idea of love and equality is dangerous. #PrideKashmir #PRIDE2020
It’s like how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but the lightbulb has to really want to change. It will work if it is the love of your life and not if it is an unimportant relationship.
there goes a funny joke How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Kevins' does it take to change a lightbulb? just one cause Karen won't shut up on the ground
@Alyssa_Milano How many of you does it take to change a lightbulb?
@heartofstcne @SunkenShots Kiran : How many Babys does it take to change a lightbulb? Mason : Just one. The real question is, how many ladders does she need? Baby : *offended noises*
Joke: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the bulb has to want to change. Point being, one single person can change the world, but they have to convince the world it needs to change. Not an easy task.
Q: how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: one, but the lightbulb has to want to change. We as a country will have to want to change, and this will mean having to identity race as a social construct. Only then will we see real change.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the guitarist has to show him how to do it
On a darker note, how many Goths does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they’d rather sit in the dark.
How many of them does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb ? None Trump just SAYS it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? H&S....I want to know where his supervisor is...
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
there goes a funny joke How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the home anyway.
How many Jans does it take to change a lightbulb?
If there wasn't criminal activity, then why have the whole force out there? How many clowns does it take to change a lightbulb? As a security officer, surveillance is extremely important and appropriate and there is no excuse to not use it. She lies.
How many cameramen does it take to change a lightbulb
Q: How many Arians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one Arian, but an awful lot of light bulbs. (*smash*) #gotjokes
how many fox news outlets does it take to change a lightbulb
How many guys does it take to change a lightbulb on a 457 m TV broadcast tower?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? Just the one. No ordinary one, however. #notachance
Treating Black people as human beings and re-writing/enforcing laws that you were hired to oversee doesn't sound remotely inconvenient for a minimally competent person. But how many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Hoary old joke time: Q: How many government scientists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Over the last year the luminosity of the light bulb has decayed only by 100% and even then only at night. Btw some very wise authors have written in a fabulous new book about Mars
How many bigots does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many govt ministers does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb at the White House?
Neatly answering the age-old question, “How many tower climbers named Kevin does it take to change a lightbulb atop a 457m-high television broadcast antenna over the South Dakota plains while being filmed by a quadcopter?”
How many @MPSLewisham does it take to change a lightbulb? #NoJusticeNoPeace
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many German cavemen does it take to change a lightbulb? Well you know what they say, "Many Hans make light work".
Some good ones today: How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump tells them it's already done so they sit around in the dark applauding. Last night, Trump read people thought he wasn't the brightest bulb, and the White House lights are ordered out.
How many framework developers does it take to change a lightbulb?
I'm no judge of best jokes.....I still laugh at stupid jokes like: How many surrealist painters does it take to change a lightbulb? This is not a pipe! (Works best with ppl who haven't a clue who surrealists are!)
How many Competant Presidents does it take to change a Lightbulb ?
Q: How many climate change skeptics does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. It's too early to say if the light bulb needs changing.
How many lunatics does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb......... if you can get anybody to do it?
But, he’s answered that age old question How many tower climbers does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many nopes does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb(this is technically a racist joke)
How many @realDonaldTrump (s) does it take to change a lightbulb? 3... One to say change the bulb, one to tell someone to change the bulb, and one to take the blame when it doesn't work.
How many Japanese schoolgirls does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Um, excuse me, how many *fascists* does it take to change a lightbulb around here? Yeah, can somebody go get Donald out of the bunker? Maybe we can use his *hair* to catch a reflection off the *moon*
HOW MANY REPUBLICANS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? NONE TRUMP SAYS ITS FIXED AND THEY ALL APPLAUD IN THE DARK
How many Italians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change it. And one to shoot the witness. P. S. I'm Italian-American and grew up with Sam Kinison, Andrew Dice Clay, Richard Pryor, and Eddie Murphy (pre-family films). #TrulyTastelessJokes #Mafia #EthnicJokes
Same people trynna fight so hard to say that word got their parents out here making “jokes” bout “how many nigg*rs does it take to change a lightbulb”? Out here laughing w ur families calling black people all sorts of slurs in your language? Misssss me with that shit
Just stupid even when people are doing in the news speaking about it how many people does it take to change a lightbulb
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? --> Oh --> it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Trust me I’m a herbalist. How many government advisors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Six. One to scew it in, one to tweet about it, one to Instagram it, one to make more coffee and one to complain there's no time for #writin. Which makes 5. And that's why we need editors. #writerslife #amwriting #amediting
Q: How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump likes to tweet in the dark.
how many swedish men does it take to change a lightbulb sven thank you you've been a lovely audience
Q: How many Sid James impersonators does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Phwoar!!
I haven't heard any 'How many (whatevers) does it take to change a lightbulb ?' jokes recently. Can it simply be that there aren't any ? And that they were never really all that funny ?
How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but it's slow. They hold the lightbulb in place then wait for the world to revolve around them. OR Ten. One to change the bulb and nine to say… "I could've changed that."
How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. 1 to change the lightbulb and 99 to say "that should be me up there"
How many Antifa members does it take to change a lightbulb? None, theyre too busy burning down cities and small businesses owned by minorities because theyre a terrorist organization and they don't care about your cause, and only care about anarchy. #AntifaTerrorists #riots2020
Q: How many Sid James impersonators does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Phwoar!
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Eh? That’s a bit too how many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? for me. (A: fish)
How many newspaper reviewers does it take to change a lightbulb? We’ll get to that in the second hour, but first Paul Kimmage has a really good piece about Joe Brolly and a baby penguin in the Sunday Independent.
How many Electric Guitar players does it take to change a lightbulb ? Five. One to change it and four to discuss how Eric Clapton would have done it. #heavymetal #metalhead #metal #metalmemetroll #metalmeme #musicmeme #EricClapton
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Flat earthers does it take to change a lightbulb?...Not sure tbh...doesn't seem to be many of them around tonight to tell us! #FlatEarth #SpaceX #spacexlaunch
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they just like to sit in the dark and blame it on the Democrats.
Old Jokes Home Q/ How many Sid James impersonators does it take to change a lightbulb? A/ Phwoar! Thanks @popbitch xxx
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: none no-one likes to admit to being a racist
How many JMs does it take to change a lightbulb?
“How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him.” https://reddit.com/r/Jokes/comments/3oy5qy/how_many_narcissists_does_it_take_to_change_a/…
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
how many pebs does it take to change a lightbulb — many https://curiouscat.qa/KoishiKomeiji22/post/1104349372…
- How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? - Just one… but it’s very expensive, it takes a long time, and the light- bulb has to want to change.
How many agile developers does it take to change a lightbulb? 3 - A sprinter to the supply closet; Another to stand on a time box to change the light bulb, and a 3rd to tell the other two that there's still a backlog of 100 lightbulbs that needs changing. #Agile #Atlassian
How many emos does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they all want to sit in the dark and cry...
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Marksmans does it take to change a lightbulb
How many producers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many logical positivists does it take to change a lightbulb? 3 A professor of logical positivism recognizes darkness, writes a proposal about it, gets funding. Her doctoral student w/ testable decision-tree listing MECE outcomes, ea w/ a counterfactual & A positive janitor.
How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? -- Who cares? They never get the house anyway.
How many WHO/CDC experts does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, but the answer will change next week.
How many screenwriters does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter, the director will change it anyway.
How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, they’ll all volunteer as long as they replace it with the one that broke 40 years ago
How many photographers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one more - just one more.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He tells them he fixed it and they all sit in the dark and applaud.
Confirmed well who knew press credentials were in high demand from forgers. How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? That's just for you msp.
How many General Electric chairmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Quite a few, it seems—but shareholders had the last laugh Wednesday
Talking to a pharmacist today at the hospital... “How many pharmacist does it take to change a lightbulb?” Pharmacist:.... “One, but they might have to do it Q4h PRN” Pharmacist: is this what you do in your free time?
How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw the bulb almost all the way in, and one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
how many me’s does it take to change a lightbulb the answer is ONE just me by myself switching a lightbulb crazy how you short people need ladders like fucking chumps im not even crazy tall im just a fucking human being 2 people to change a lightbulb damn
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. If they're optimistic enough they figure the lightbulb will revive itself
How many clickbait content writers does it take to change a lightbulb? /// Only five, but number four will shock you! :-) @NiteWrites - 20 Marketing Jokes for Marketers Working from Home @toprank -
If only. how many parliamentarians does it take to change a lightbulb? change? change chainnnnnnge
How many whales does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. One to actually do the work, and another to pay for the bulb yet say theyre f2p
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
WSJmarkets: How many General Electric chairmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Quite a few, it seems—but shareholders had the last laugh on Wednesday.
How many General Electric chairmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Quite a few, it seems—but shareholders had the last laugh on Wednesday.
How many immature teenagers does it take to change a lightbulb? 69
How many pigs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they’re to busy killing innocent POC’s.
Yes. It suggests that standards of propriety have changed. Which of course leads you to the best religious joke ever: Q: How many Dayanim/Ayatollahs does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Change?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
Q: How many @VodafoneIN employees does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Zero, cause they wouldn’t bother changing it! P.S. FIX MY SMS ISSUE!
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? --> Oh --> it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
how many horned girls does it take to change a lightbulb without using their hands
How many Standard players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, have them hold the bulb and wait for the format to rotate.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many executives does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many GE Directors does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s like Branson selling Virgin Music or Cummings telling the truth? Unimaginable until you log on and rewrite history. #cummingmustgo #cummimgsout
How many #cummings does it take to change a lightbulb...? One. He holds it in place and the whole world spins around him.
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The light bulb doesn't need changing. He just lies and says it does.
How many priests does it take to change a lightbulb? Nun. Ha ha get it babe haha Please come back veronica
how many girls does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. But the short one still does most of the work
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
karamo: how many tan’s does it take to change a lightbulb? bobby: just one. the real question is: how many ladders does he need? tan: *offended noises*
Q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb A: none, no-one like's to be called a racist
How many of us boy bands does it take to change a lightbulb? We don’t know because most lightbulbs last longer.
Q: How many Conservative special advisors does it take to change a lightbulb. A: There is no lightbulb.
how many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? trick question, they enjoy being in the dark.
Day 28, tip 28. It's not personal. How many copywriters does it take to change a lightbulb? 'I'm not changing anything!' Don't be one of those copywriters. Who take feedback personally. Instead, listen. Don't get emotional, be objective. #copywriting
How many Karens does it take to change a lightbulb? One to hold the bulb while the world revolves around her. Unless she's caught on video being the white supremacist we always knew she was.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just beat the room for being black
How many Isles fans does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows. They just keep talking about how great the last 4 bulbs were. #LGR
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Purple octagon.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many Narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None, - they still use gaslighting
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
Qn: how many Psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: it’s up to the lightbulb to decide that it wants to change itself Something to think about!
Jokowi is in a cabinet meeting with his ministers and advisors and asks a question. "How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?" *The room stays quiet for a moment until a voice breaks out* "Gak tau pak, panggil aja TNI/Polri."
Lightbulb jokes are the epitome of Boomer Humor. Also, how many Boomers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They can't stand change, and they don't want the light shone upon their hypocrisy.
there goes a funny joke How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Reminds me of an old joke— Q: “How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: “That’s not funny!”
#Joke How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. 22:42:07
.#MostUnmanlyPresident #PresidentTweety @realDonaldTrump does not know what Memorial Day is about. he is like the jokes about 'how many fill-in-the-blank does it take to change a lightbulb?' #HonorVeteransByWearingAMask
How many dyslectics does it take to change a lightbulb ? Steven.
"How many trans girls does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to feel dysphoric she is tall enough not to need a ladder, one to tell her that she is both valid regardless of her height and valid in feeling sad. The third is dating them both and was just hanging around."
Q: How many lockdowners does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Do you even understand exponential growth you selfish moron?
How many #msm #mediascum does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Gokus does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many trips to Barnard Castle does it take to change a lightbulb? #DominicCummings
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hire a contractor who won't get paid, and one to appear on Fox News and blame the Democrats for breaking the old bulb.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
Quiet news day: How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s “replace"
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
there goes a funny joke How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
If people told Polish jokes way back when, then we should be able to tell Slovenian jokes. Q: How many Slovenian women does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Zero, they're too busy being prostitutes!
there goes a funny joke How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
No wrong answer Mandy. It's to do with Jewish men not being known for their practical skills. "How many Jewish men does it take to change a lightbulb?" "None. They call the electrician" It's a spin on that joke.
How many Tory advisors does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they get a key worker to do it while going to a castle for their wife's birthday
@BadMouthCid "How many Cids does it take to change a lightbulb? None! He makes Shera do it!"
How many Senators does it take to change a lightbulb? Republicans can’t change lightbulbs because Trump hasn’t realised he is in the dark –
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? However many Dominic Cummings tells them it does!#dominiccummimgs
How many Dominic Cummings’ does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t care Am I too old to have this enter your Tweet Hall of Jokes? @KidsWriteJokes
How many Becs does it take to change a lightbulb?
Hey #WritingCommunity, do you have a favorite writing joke you would like to share. Here's one... How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
Q: How many copywriters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: You're changing NOTHING.
How many losers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just enough to cry about how I look better than them doing it. Superficial people are a drag.
How many banjo players does it take to change a lightbulb?
there goes a funny joke How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem
there goes a funny joke How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
From the LP convention: "How many Libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb?" Answers: "Am I being detained?" "No, the free market does it for 'em" "968 and about 9 hours of deliberation on how to do it" "420" The four wings of the Libertarian Party.
(88/?) How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? The joke doesn't land, the replies include "Am I being detained?" and "four twenty"
How many goths does it take to change a lightbulb? None, but one has to light the candle.
How many goths does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to replace the UV tube, and one to put Floodland on.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many goths does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change it for a purple bulb and one to plug the smoke machine in.
3 Himsis went to a bar..... Why did the Homsi cross the street? How many Homsis does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many goths does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just embrace the darkness.
It's a variation of the joke "How many Jewish men does it take to change a lightbulb" "None. They call an electrician"
I’m live right now playing fallout. How many ghouls does it take to change a lightbulb? #SupportSmallStreamers http://Mixer.com/SheSlays
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many StackOverflow moderators does it take to change a lightbulb? [closed as not constructive]
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but the lightbulb must want to change. That’s a joke. What Dementia Joe said wasn’t.
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Four - One to make the drinks. One to look at it and decide to do it later. One to drink the drinks. One to Tweet about it instead of changing it. All I have is this short fiction -
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb ? ...... Juan #JuanSheetDoesPlenty
So you need at least three. Do young women have three eyebrows now? I'm very sorry, Lee, your joke reeks of a profound lack of understanding of electrical work. How many Lee Hursts does it take to change a lightbulb? JUST STAY THE FUCK AWAY FROM ELECTRICS AND CALL A SPARKY!
How many doctoral students does it take to change a lightbulb ? One, but it takes eight years #phdlife #phd #research
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #RandomJokesIO #randomJokes
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the family home anyway.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Q. How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A. LOL! Like any number of Trumps could change a lightbulb!
I hear you, sister. I'm pretty sure I come across as half a stalker whenever I try to flirt. (Btw, here's my sole lesbian joke: How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten. One to put in the new bulb and nine to form a collective to make sure it's done fairly.)
How many accountants does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends who’s filling out the paperwork.
Q: How many quarantined folks does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but it might take all day.
This reminds me of the old joke: “How many Apple engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many ground crew does it take to change a lightbulb. Wing view of a Jetstar Asia A320 at Phuket airport. Quite possibly the airline that enforced their rules the strictest that I have ever flown on. https://instagr.am/p/CAgVUafB8D4/
So... how many goths does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many labor & delivery nurses does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but you're going to feel a little cold gel, okay?
How many clouds does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many t.rex does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
STEADYSTRONGSAFE.... BLAHBLAHBLAH! YADAYADAYADA! & ANOTHER THING. SIX OF ONE, HALF DOZEN OF THE OTHER. HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I DON'T KNOW EITHER BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT CHORTLE GPHA GIGGLE YUK YUK YIKES! ! VOTE VOTE VOTE!
How many capitas does it take to change a lightbulb? My cat purrs all the time. Her name's Capita. Capita D, Capita U, Capita M, Capita B. What's it spell? I have many Capita's per person.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Phoenecians does it take to change a lightbulb? One but it'll cost you 74.5 billion dollars
Q: How many Comms professionals does it take to change a lightbulb? A: More https://gov.je/Working/JobCareerAdvice/Pages/JobDetails.aspx?JobID=79219…
How many working class people does it take to change a lightbulb? Leo Varadkar: We had a team of highly paid experts, lightbulb consultants and marketing professionals say we you only need one pleb and that they should do it for less than €8.75 per hour.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Hehe I have a bunch of one liner (very bad) elephant jokes like that, but my new favourite is: Q. How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? A. *shrugs* it's a very obscure number, you wouldn't have heard of it.
And *sigh* how many flutes does it take to change a lightbulb? None, their boyfriends will do it for them
How many trumpets does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one to hold the bulb, and the rest of the room will revolve around him
how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb?
What is how many stingy pollocks does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many #jokeEnnedy's does it take to change a lightbulb? trick question. the butler does it, of course.
How many editors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to really want to change @WeeMissBea #ThisWayUp
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
Text: How many krill does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but that’s probably not the kind of ‘change’ you were hoping for #thatskygame #lightbulb #krill
Text: How many dark crabs does it take to change a lightbulb? Let’s count! One . . . . two . . . . SCREEEEEE!!! #thatskygame #lightbulb #darkcrabs
Text: How many moths does it take to change a lightbulb? Cut them some slack They haven't even figured out how to change their pants yet #thatskygame #lightbulb #moths
How many corrupt Christian politicians/political appointees does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t matter because God told a Christian to vote for them in the first place.
How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only kidding George. Nice pic, she looks like a future show stopper.
How many per capitas does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many @thomTNAF does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a hardware problem.
How many IKs does it take to change a lightbulb?
Good Thursday afternoon to you!! So many options....I’m going with a joke. How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it’s a hardware problem.
on a scale of 1-10, how many cats does it take to change a lightbulb. yes or no answers only.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many epidemiologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only the economist knows!
How many social workers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because social workers never change anything!
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Guy: How many black people does it take to change a lightbulb? Cop: I dunno, I shot em' before they could finish.
how many gecs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Liverpool fans does it take to change a lightbulb?
HOW MANY OPTIMISTS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? NONE! THE BUTLER CHANGES THE LIGHTBULB
How many #covidiots does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they're all at the f***ing beach........
How many Virgos does it take to change a lightbulb? 1.00000000
"How many Peta members does it take to change a lightbulb?.... None, Peta can't change anything." https://twitter.com/SuperMeatBoy/status/10140239737659392?s=19…
Old guitarist joke: How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? One to get on the ladder, and twenty to stand around saying they could have done it better. Some people forget that the guitar can be an oscillator, the pedal board a modular synth.
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb ? Fore
How many Jesuits does it take to change a lightbulb? *frantically googles for punchlines*
Please explain this to the people who have lost young children and adults to the virus. Conservative with a load of numbers after their name. How obvious. How many bots does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just pretend to be someone else.
I have two. 1/ How do the welsh eat cheese? Caerphilly. 2/ How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish. Thanks
They could get #DementiaJoe on to do Trump jokes: Q. How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Go, you know, you know the record player thing, c'mon man!
How many ogres does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, how many ogres does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one guy is necessary to be an American president, and to have such power. The power to behave so openly repugnant
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=kbJRnxxkwrw… hilarious how many sheep does it take to change a lightbulb? watch and find out lol
How many Tom Parlon’s does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Tom Parlon has never fixed anything. But he’s charging me an appearance fee for his work in this joke.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
//Another one asks how many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb. 3 one to get the ladder, one to shove it, and another to sue the ladder company.”
How many chickens does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Dadaists does it take to change a lightbulb? Purple.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many MRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still use gaslighting.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
Still, at least we've all realised that the stupid google interview hiring techniques are insanity. Haven't we? HAVEN'T WE? How many manholes does it take to change a lightbulb on the moon? No, HackerRank is not a 'inclusion leveller', it implies free time in evenings to do them.
how many BBC staffers does it take to change a lightbulb? wan. jist tell them Nicola Sturgeon pit it in
How many devs does it take to change a lightbulb? None its working as intended. Mount Run Tuesday then some other stuff on my priest. #worldofwarcraft Check it out LIVE
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they confiscate all the lightbulbs for the "federal stockpile", sell them off to China, and then claim that Obama left them none.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many homophobes does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They fear change - Even if it means making the world a brighter place. #LGBTQ
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
How many epidemiologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only an economist knows the answer!
How many edge computing experts does it take to change a lightbulb? Define “lightbulb”…
How many white guys does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 or 2? 1... or 2?
That is why Essex tories are the new Essex joke, how many Essex tories does it take to change a lightbulb, 6, 4 to hold the ladder, 1 to turn the light of, the other to ring for a electrician to do the job!!!
How many Steelers' fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just sit around and talk about how great the old one was.
How many diet Cokes does it take to change a lightbulb is a question that will probably never be answered.
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
How many immature people does it take to change a lightbulb? A; Your mum
how many aarons does it take to change a lightbulb
How many art directors does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to change it, two to offer opinions on how they would do it differently.
How many diet Cokes does it take to change a lightbulb is probably a question that will never be answered.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and the other to hold the penis. Ladder! I meant ladder.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: crow
How many Scottish Labour MPs does it take to change a lightbulb..?? All of them....
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many Wycliffe bitches does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadjokes
Q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: none no-one likes to be called a racist!
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many Modi’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Four! One to address a nation in a language only the north speaks, one to angrily blame Pakistan (he cries when he’s mad), one to forward messages on WhatsApp about it, and one to call in a surgical strike on the dead lightbulb.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many squeeler fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None... They just sit around and talk about how good the other six were....
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but only if it's ready to change.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many shills does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb? Just this one.
How many Essex Tories does it take to change a Lightbulb? 5, One to climb up the ladder to change the lightbulb, 4 to hold the ladder at each corner. Feel free to add Essex Tory Jokes?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many @jacindaardern's does it take to change a lightbulb? Two... one to change the lightbulb & the other one to blow up the whole fucking house to ensure that no one falls over in the dark & bruises their knee.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many LNP Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? I reject the premise of your question.
Spot on How many mandates does it take to change a lightbulb?
“How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to go up a ladder, one to shake it and one to sue the ladder company.”  - Better Call Saul s02e05
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
how many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb. none they just beat the room because its black
This reminds me of that old joke ‘how many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb?’
hOw MaNy PoLlOcKs DoEs It TaKe To ChAnGe A LiGhTbULb
How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb?…
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb. They dont change the lightbulb, they beat the room for being black.
How many roadies does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, two, one, two.
OOOh inclusive maths packs, is it, If there are 10 men in a ladies toilet and 4 of them are wearing wigs how many penises does it take to change a lightbulb? Kind of thing?
Or to rewrite this, in a more constructive spirit: Q: How many DTs does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: light breaks where no sun shines, so there's no need for a lightbulb in the first place. #DayAfterDylanThomasDay
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many #gamedev's does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to swap out the mesh, another to rebake the lighting and a third to push the build
How many mes does it take to change a lightbulb? It better not be more than one cuz that’s all I have
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Question: How many members of the trump family does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: Three. One to hold the bulb, and two to turn the ladder.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
@HassanRouhani @YaleCMES The United Stupids had better fix themselves! How many news fools does it take to change a lightbulb? Is that the reason they push for LEDs? Bills that have no merit need to be appealed! Pretty Boy loves the drama! https://youtu.be/Z7yVSGZVO-Q
How many Morrisseys does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Because there is a light and it never goes out.
@HassanRouhani @YaleCMES The United Stupids had better fix themselves! How many news fools does it take to change a lightbulb? Is that the reason they push for LEDs? Bills that have no merit need to be appealed! Pretty Boy loves the drama! https://youtu.be/Z7yVSGZVO-Q
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadjokes
Q: How many Northern Soul fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Ten. One to change the lightbulb and nine to sit around going "It's not as good as the original"
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
how many furries does it take to change a lightbulb?
An old joke with a new twist: Question: How many fools does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: I don't know and I am afraid to ask so I;d rather do it myself.
Ok. How many professors does it take to change a lightbulb Mari?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q: How many parasite lords does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Zero. Their thrall woads don’t need pseudoluminance to stumble over gemstones.
How many people from Jersey does it take to change a lightbulb ... er.. I mean WIN Survivor? Where's the other home boy @nickmaiorano , oh yeah, nevermind! #SurvivorWinnersAtWar #oooooo-oohhh #JerseyStrong #CopsRUs @survivor_tweets
How many bottles of Jack does it take to change a lightbulb? We can help you find out... Don't worry, we're talking tiny bottles. #JackDaniels #Marysville #LogCabinFun
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
Anonymous said: Q. How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. How many can you afford?
how many people does it take to change a lightbulb
So who had 1 in the “how many people does it take to change a lightbulb” pool?
how many men does it take to change a lightbulb?? haha men are stupid
how many donnie the dumbo trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
Have a laugh... How many stoners does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they all have lighters!
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Well it's a good thing that you're weird if you're living here. As far as arguing about what's Nol-y and what isn't? Par for the course. How many New Orleanians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change it, and another to bitch that they preferrred the old bulb.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many GP’s does it take to change a lightbulb? One. I think. I’ll double check.
How many GP’s does it take to change a lightbulb? One. I think. I’ll double check.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many nutty conservative fundamentalists does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they prefer the dark.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One is enough, if the lightbulb is ready to change.
How many super saiyans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But it takes over 13 episodes.
Reminds me of my favorite Uptown joke. How many Uptown ladies does it take to change a lightbulb? 12. 11 to make cocktails and one to call Public Service.
@DocAtCDI Q. How many Inspectors General does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. Trump keeps firing them all because he wants the American people to be in the dark! #DontDrinkBleach #TrumpTaxReturns #TrumpDeathToll82K - Not a Hoax #COVID19
How many chiropractors does it take to change a lightbulb? - just one but it requires twenty visits
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 and a dog.
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the family home in any case.
How many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb?
True story. The 1st day I arrived at Oxford as a baby gasdoc, my consultant said to me: “How many people does it take to change a lightbulb at this hospital?” Followed by: “Change? Change?! Why change??! We’ve been doing it like this for the last 400 years.” A few things changed
"How fast can a dragon's breath crispify a man?" "If you throw someone off a dragon and there's nobody around, does it make a sound?" "How many dragons does it take to change a lightbulb?"
How many mathematicians does it take to change a lightbulb?
Apart from the VAST range of “how many does it take to change a lightbulb” jokes eg how many mojos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sound technicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two... Two... One... Two
How many radiologists does it take to change a lightbulb? There's a lightbulb in here? Huh....
How many Barts surgeons does it take to change a lightbulb? Change? Never!
From #medstudent days, told to me by a ‘pod. #orthotwitter “How many Orthopods does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. I hold the lightbulb and the world revolves around me. How many surgeons does it take to change a lightbulb? BAH. CHANGE. NEVER!”
How many Orthopods does it take to change a lightbulb? “Dear medics. Dark. ?cause”.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many breakfast telly presenters does it take to change a lightbulb? Find out this, & more, after the news, travel & weather where you are
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How about I lighten your mood? How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Me. Just me.
I saw this on the Mentor Community page this morning. Wish I could credit the author because it’s clever....lol (Something to make us giggle) Q: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in a Facebook group? 1 to change the light bulb and to post that the light b…
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: Barr should investigate why Obama didn’t use a light bulb that lasted longer.
The big issue with the UK is over-regulation. They take a simple matter and over-analyse it, over-react and over-regulate it. Q: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Around the world: 1. UK 3+ !
#JustForFun: I want your punchlines! How many #writers does it take to change a lightbulb? #WritingCommunity
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Cautus does it take to change a lightbulb? None, all of them are being fucked by Ansel and Kroos can't even see the lightbulb.
This one made me laugh Q: How many building surveyors does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, because they couldn’t see the value #HMO #HMOproperty #HMOlandlord #HMOinvestor
Q: How many #QAnon ragers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: OBAMAGATE!!!!!!!
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but it takes a long time and the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many cabinet ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?
... How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb ? Only one, he holds the bulb hostage and the world revolves around him
... how many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb, ... only one, but the bulb has really gotta want to change YW
How many journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? Journalist: How do you change a lightbulb?
How many journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? Journalist: How do you change a lightbulb?
How many Performance Center employees does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb.
Is this a similar question to “How many scientists does it take to change a lightbulb ?”
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb?
Probably the lady is an anti-vaxxer. How many of them does it take to change a lightbulb? None bacause anti-vaxxers live in the dark ages.
How many members of U2 does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Bono just holds up the bulb and the world revolves around him.
Q: How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: (shouted in woman's voice) "I suppose you think that's funny"?
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
Is a similar question to how many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb
"How many building conservationists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "...CHANGE?!" credit to @Kevin_McCloud as we currently binge watch #granddesigns on @Channel4 #architecture #jokes #bingewatching #tvtime
How many Bills does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They're busy lowering the population by 15%.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That's a hardware problem.
cue georgia’s ‘how many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb’ post
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Don’t be silly feminists can’t change anything
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Joke time. Best answer wins... How many Johnson's does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Vietnam vets does it take to change a lightbulb.....? You dont know , you weren’t there !
WELL, BLAHBLAHBLAH! YADAYADAYADA! & ANOTHER THING! INVERSE CONVERSE DIVERSE PERVERSE UNIVERSE! JUST NEVER REVERSE. SIX OF ONE, HALF DOZEN OF THE OTHER. KEEP ON, KEEPING ON. STEADYSTRONGSAFE! HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT
How many #COVIDIOTS does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to do it, but at least another 20+ others to gather round and watch them do it
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change the bulb and one to hold my cock, mum no ladder.
How many travellers cheques does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Why haven’t the Tories done it? The EU’s pocket guide (10,000 pages) on ‘Illumination Device Decomissioning’ sets out clear guidance.
How many does it take to change a lightbulb
Um, I have to. Yes, I have to. Write about this. What came to mind was "How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?" There are three, adults, sitting in front of the front of a car, using what may be toothbrushes or tissue, to scrub and scrub the lights of said car. Um..?
The politicians are playing with are lives it’s like the saying “how many people does it take to change a lightbulb” not one of them can make a right decision we are like caged animals to the slaughter...
How many germans does it take to change a lightbulb? Nein #bot #jokes #fun
how many taehyun’s does it take to change a lightbulb? we’re about to find out
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? We don't know. Rather than change it they'd prefer to talk about how badly it was originally fitted
How many carnists does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t matter, they prefer to live in the dark.
Q: How many ship’s stewards does it take to change a lightbulb? A: And really, how long could it take for her to fetch them to your stateroom? Perhaps you should go and look for her. Where’s the whisky - did she finish a whole bottle before leaving? God damn these mosquitoes!
‘How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! Their butler changes the light bulb’ Always brings a bitter smile to my face whenever I hear it. #TimsTwitterListeningParty
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb?#TimsTwitterListeningParty
A "joke" from Facebook Blender. "How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question. They beat the room because it is black." Remind me again why training a bot on Reddit isn't such a great idea?
How many Deadheads does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows, they wait for it to burn out and follow it around for twenty years.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
I thought of this joke when I first played Overwatch nearly 4 years ago and I thought I'd finally share it, so here goes. How many Lucios does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . A Brazilian @PlayOverwatch @Blizzard_Ent If Jeff Kaplan sees this it would make my day. ok bye
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Or wun? Anyway, here's one for you: How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but first they have to be sure that it really wants to change.
"how many crackheads does it take to change a lightbulb"
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? The don't - they're afraid of change.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb. First does the lightbulb really want to change?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian...
How many GOP senators does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just blame the darkness on Obama, and continue living in the dark.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many #SupplyChain managers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, production is behind so there’s none in stock.
Time for a corgi joke: Question: How many corgi dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: Just one corgi to loudly bark and be annoying enough for their owner to come over and see the broken lightbulb.
How many woke intersecionalists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, it isn’t funny, and I feel uncomfortable that you asked.
DAILY DEVOTION FROM PASTOR STEVE Thursday, May 7, 2020 Acts 19:15 The evil spirit answered them “Jesus I know, and I know about Paul, but who are you?” How many Baptists does it take to change a lightbulb? Change...what do you mean change? Read more:https://smbc.org/dailydevotion
How many gecs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Can we get more of this please? What’s your answer? How many issues managers does it take to change a lightbulb? #ableg #abpoli #UCP
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Trump says it's fixed and they just sit in the dark and applaud.
how many marketers does it take to change a lightbulb? the answer is 'millennials.' because the answer to every fuckin question in marking is 'millennials.'
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the bulb has to want to change. People with 2-3 EI do not have the capacity/muscle to change even if they say they wish to. (Character = ability to act on moral impulses). Wish this were not so true.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Trump
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many gods does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many husker fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, one to actually change it and the rest of the fanbase to stand around and talk about how great the last lightbulb was
how many existentialists does it take to change a lightbulb
How many grammar nazi's does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many ska kids does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to drop it and two to say “pick it up, pick it up, pick it up.”
Question: How many Matt wolfs does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: it is un-Albertan to change even if the light is burnt out, but roughly 20 Matt Wolfs might be able to convince some Albertans the light might one day turn back on.
I just heard this joke on the radio, “How many Browns fans does it take to change a lightbulb?” None! They like living in Pittsburgh’s shadow
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? --> Let's go ride bikes!
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to hold the light bulb and 3 to turn the ladder.
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they blame Trump for it
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they blame Trump!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
@realDonaldTrump challenge question; how many #MAGAts does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer; zero, grandma is doing it while the boys play dress up in the basement, and Melania is hangin’ with Hank (Hunk!). #MAGA #MAGA2020 #ImpeachedForever #IdiotInChief @VP
How many dead hookers does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently more than seven because my basement is still dark. -Tweets dad jokes like @drayzze
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
Q: How many 5G activists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 1080
I was going to post how inspiring your books are to me. Instead, I'll post my favorite joke: "A guy walks into a bar. He was drunk." Second favorite joke: "How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Purple."
Tech theatre joke: Q. How many electricians does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None, it's a lamp.
How many economists does it take to change a lightbulb? Models indicate between three and fifteen.
how many avivas does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
When I used to work at Ch-12, the joke went like this. How many news anchors does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. They just hold up the bulb to the socket and let the whole world revolve around them.
How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb? … … CHANGE?!
How many Cabinet ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 for procurement (eventually). 1 to ramp up the testing procedure. 1 to applaud the preferred electrician (Cummings pal) and finally another to explain how well the procedure went.
how many brookes does it take to change a lightbulb
How many emo kids does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many Steelers fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all talk about how good the old ones were.
How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, it depends on the type of dog!
Q: How many Conservative Jews does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Nobody really knows, but six committees are working on it.
How many Udyr players does it take to change a lightbulb? Both. #LeagueOfLegends
Well, it hasn't change since at least System V, but you know the joke: How many Microsoft employees does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 hotliner to tell the client that it's not a bug, but a feature: obscurity has since become the new industrial standard.
how many bi’s does it take to change a lightbulb? >4 apparently
How many brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb 1 to light the candle and an other 17.4m to claim that they knew all along that they were voting to abolish electricity.
How many carnists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many amoebas does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. No wait, 2. Wait... 4. 8. 16. 32. 64. 128. 256...
how many waddle dees does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just tweet about how unfair darkness is.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
THE SO CALLED LEFT CANT MEME CUZ THEY AINT HILARIOUS LIKE ME Q: How many feminazis does it take to change a lightbulb A : That’s NOT funny See what eye meen
Time for one of my all-time favourite immature jokes to brighten your Tuesday. Q- How many immature people does it take to change a lightbulb? A- Your mum.
How many legitimate questions does it take to change a lightbulb? The truth is that we really don’t know. Decades of neoliberal politics have broken the bulb and eroded the fitting. But saying that at this time is treasonous apparently.
How many sith does it take to change a lightbulb? 2: because there can be only be a master and an apprentice!! May the 4th be with you!!! #maythe4thbewithyou #maythe4th #maytheforcebewithyou #starwars… https://instagram.com/p/B_yG0cGHqEo/?igshid=1gipvypwz51y8…
How many Karen’s does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just scream at the manager until they change it for free.
#Question: How many Sith Lords does it take to change a lightbulb? #Answer: None, because they prefer it a little on the dark side. #MayThe4thBeWithYou #MayThe4th2020 #MayThe4th
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Banana. It just seemed apt. #TheArchers
How many producers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Librans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Why change the bulb? Isn't it more romantic in the dark? #gotjokes
Oh it's mpore than 45. My favourite joke explains it, thus: Q: How many Englishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. That lightbulb was good enough for my father, and it was good enough for my grandfather, and it is good enough for me!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Sith Lords does it take to change a lightbulb?… None, because they prefer it a little on the dark side. https://bit.ly/2Y1JkdW #MayThe4thBeWithYou #StarWarsDay #StarWars
How many Kelly’s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many meat-eaters does it take to change a lightbulb? #WorldLaughterDay #LaughterDay
Mistaken metaphor for bright idea sends man to ER. Area man lights up insides. How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hyper-advanced alien races does it take to change a lightbulb? #JupiterIsTrending
How many shitposters does it take to change a lightbulb...
One of my favorite jokes.. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb ?? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change!! Ppl have been taught by society to have immediate gratification, to have the victim mentality as well to have entitlement issues
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many @MattHancock does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows? He'll take the light bulb out, pass you a new one, and then tell you that he's changed 1.22 light bulbs, despite the fact that you're still in the dark.
How many @BorisJohnson does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but he'll wait until it's closer to peak darkness before he does it. Maybe 250,000 people will die in the darkness, but it's mostly old people and poor people, and by then your eyes should have adjusted anyway.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
My daughter: How many pistachios does it take to change a lightbulb? Me: My daughter: No! I'm mean how many Psychiatrists!
How many keep fit fans does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 2 3 4....1 2 3 4....
How many Smiths fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they have a light that never goes out. @spoony_jo thought you'd like this
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q. How many CDC employees does it take to change a lightbulb? A. 10 -- one to change the lightbulb, and 9 because the CDC can't count.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? --> None that's a hardware problem
Q: How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, feminists can't change anything.
#MasculinitySaturday Q: How many male chauvinists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Let her do the dishes in the dark.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Karens does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They complain to their manager about it
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Dragonball characters does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. One to change the lightbulb, and another to resurrect Krillin (who fucking died on the process somehow)
How many Dragonball Z characters does it take to change a lightbulb? Find out next time, on Dragonball Z!!!
How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too...
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the house in any case.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
how many existentialists does it take to change a lightbulb- my man is a whole ass nerd
(One for those of a certain age) How many Norman Lamonts does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but there's no need because it's already showing signs of recovery...
How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? --> Let's go ride bikes!
Q: How many members of the GOP does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they're too busy looking for dirt on Joe Biden.
How many bros does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, it's already lit fam!
Q. How many NRA members does it take to change a lightbulb? A. More guns!
You know those jokes that start with “How many (name something) does it take to change a lightbulb?” Well, how many people does it take to correct a @BBCBreaking news Tweet before @BBCBreaking news decides to check their facts and correct their Tweet? Anyone?
How many Tech fans does it take to change a lightbulb? One of course. The same amount that attends their football games.
how many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Home Secretaries does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many foaming at the mouth Brexit loons does it take to change a lightbulb? 17.4m and 1 1 to change the lightbulb and 17.4m to lose their shit bc EU countries didn't step up and help more.
how many script fans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
I can't believe I'm witnessing a real-life how many Englishmen does it take to change a lightbulb joke.
How many thieves does it take to change a lightbulb?
©How many Keir Starmer's does it take to change a lightbulb ?
Like How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? None trump prefers they stay in the dark.....
I'm now tempted to ask how many dreamers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many NULL agents does it take to change a lightbulb? None, I wouldn't trust them with a lightbulb. ᵗʰᵒˢᵉ ᶠᵘᶜᵏᵉʳˢ
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? None she took those too!
"How many Doctor Who fans does it take to change a lightbulb?" "CHANGE?!?!!!?!!?"
Q: How many #trekkies does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 4. Because if you look closer, you'll see that there are are actually four lights
How many redittors does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes https://ift.tt/3bOoaY9
How many Irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? ONE! For fuck's sake! Have you been in a coma for the last two months? Jesus!
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Reminds me of an old joke: How many sorority girls does it take to change a lightbulb? 30. 1 to change the bulb and 29 to clap, snap, and make t-shirts.
How many Marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the lightbulb contains the seeds of its own revolution.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
Dear @Peston, Is this like a ‘how many newborn babies does it take to change a lightbulb’ joke? Confused of the U.K.
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Come of it he won't change, he's already a parent. Only thing he's doing is trying to find out how many babies does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
"How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?"
I for one am steadfast for toast law enactment. How many Libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? ...It takes 4 idiots to sit in the dark and argue that the bulb has rights and should not be forced into change at all...
How many guys in the friendzone does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just stand around complimenting it then get pissed when it doesn’t screw.
Today our household answered the question ‘how many men does it take to change a lightbulb?’ in a very real way...being able to see the kitchen again is a mixed blessing however
How many olives does it take to change a lightbulb
How many wizards does it take to change a lightbulb? 0. Light is a cantrip
@DocAtCDI Q. How many Meat Packers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. They don’t count. Let them work in the dark! If they are ill or injured, tonight Trump has pledged to protect the Plant Owners from any liability! #DontDrinkBleach #meatpacking is Slavery!
How many trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He tells them he fixed it and they all sit in the dark and applaud. #cult45 #TrumpFailedAmerica
How many Shinji's does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many Bristol Uni students does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Daddy just buys a new flat!* *This has to be said in a Harry Enfield style "Tim Nice But Dim" voice to work properly.
How many Politico writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. The first three will screw it up and get it all wrong. The fourth one will come in later to issue reasons why they got it all wrong and correct it.
How many Toms does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? None because the lightbulb isn’t broke, it’s fake news #NewEndingsToOldJokes
#NewEndingsToOldJokes How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? None they're all at lunch.
#NewEndingsToOldJokes How many bankers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five @ 20% interest.
#NewEndingsToOldJokes How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, as is currently compliant under social distancing rules!
How many immature people does it take to change a lightbulb? Your mum.
#NewEndingsToOldJokes How many Irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? 1
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them it’s a human centipede of screwing #NewEndingsToOldJokes
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Reminds me of a very old geek joke: "How many Microsoft engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?" "None. They just redefine darkness as the industry standard."
How many Disney personnel does it take to change a lightbulb…
Me: changes a lightbulb Head mate: *laughing inside* how many identities does it take to change a lightbulb? Me: *audibly groan laughs* My mother: Are you ok?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Harvey's does it take to change a lightbulb? - - - #photo #selfie #photography #phonephotography #gay #lgbt #lgbtq #lgbtqia #lgbtq #funny #silly #comedy https://instagram.com/p/B_gCH2AD_zu/?igshid=n4zgszs5y4dp…
“How many New Yorkers does it take to change a lightbulb?” “None of ya fucking business” https://brucesterling.tumblr.com/post/616547245953875968/how-many-new-yorkers-does-it-take-to-change-a…
And for a bonus 10 points. How many elections does it take to change a lightbulb???
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Harvey's does it take to change a lightbulb? https://instagram.com/p/B_gCH2AD_zu/?igshid=1amcgjkv0gs2x…
Finally I can bring this up. Saw this joke scrawled in the basement of a math department: "Q: How many Ramsay theorists does it take. to change a lightbulb? A: At most 2^2^2^2^2^2..."
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many Edgar Allen Poes does it take to change a lightbulb? Nevermore than one! Check out the pins at http://AuntMatildas.com
New caption: How many officials does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it's a hardware problem..... Sorry, i thought it was funny.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? It's a pretty obscure number, you've probably never heard it before... #oldjoke #hipsterjoke
brucesterling: “How many New Yorkers does it take to change a lightbulb?” “None of ya fucking business”
How many army personnel does it take to change a lightbulb? Classified.
Nah it’ll be how many outsourced private companies does it take to change a lightbulb in an nhs hospital
How many US Army personnel does it take to change a lightbulb?. [CLASSIFIED]
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None trump tells it is on and they are left in the dark
How many Newcastle United directors does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. 1 to change the bulb, and the other to laugh about charging £60 for a team shirt, and call Alan Shearer Shirley Temple...
How many US Army personnel does it take to change a lightbulb? [CLASSIFIED]
How many Tinies does it take to change a lightbulb? Three hundred. I mean, seriously.
@DocAtCDI Q. How many #IvanaTrump s does it take to change a lightbulb? A. One. She just walks up to it and says {in an icy, breathy voice belonging to an Eskimo baby} “Do you know who my daddy is?” The bulb freezes in fright & shatters. She throws away the lamp. Done!
@DocAtCDI Q. How many #JaredKushner s does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Three. - One to read a book on: the discovery of electricity, the invention of the lightbulb & the Bio of Edison. - One to buy the most expensive ladder & hire a handyman. - One to kick the ladder.
How many melanies does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know but it’s definitely more than one. Pls help
How many corpses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many playwrights does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the guitarist has to show him how to do it.
How many mystery writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it most of the way in and one to give it a surprising twist at the end. (Credit to the unknown - to me - creator of that joke)
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
Finish this joke please: Q: How many panpsychists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How Many Golfers Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb? FORE!
On going joke here.... how many bottom brackets does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many white people does it take to change a lightbulb? None; they lynch the room for being black
How many librarians does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One, or two?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
@theraveneffect Got a quick one for you,Raven; How many corpses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? 1, 5, 1, 5...
This begs the question: How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . . 2. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end. Credit: Upjoke #WritingCommunity #jokeoftheday
#caturday Question. How many Luci’s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #randomJokes #dadJokes
How many sinister, evil ministerial advisors does it take to change a lightbulb?
@2010LeeHurst How many Imperial college London Virus Models does it take to change a lightbulb? A. 500,000.............oh wait sorry!
Q: How many Karens does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That's not funny.
@legitirl @babytreesus @dragery @Devil_Syndicate @Hannibal_Booze How many syndicate does it take to change a lightbulb?? NONE KUZ ITS ALREADY LIT FAM!!!!
Q. How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. It only takes one, but the lightbulb has to want to change. And have a smartphone. (Interesting work on self driven personality change via smartphone app:)
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
Alright now "Florida Man" can be trumped by "Maryland People" Hehe. How many Maryland people does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many record producers does it take to change a lightbulb?  A: Two… one to tell the engineer to do it, the other to say "I don't know, what do you think?" #jokes
How many tories does it take to change a lightbulb? Well Lets blame Corbyn because it doesnt work and im sorry we have ordered lightbulbs,but turkey has not delivered them yet.
How many Conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Why would they change it went all they wanna do is keep you in the dark.
How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? One with two qualifications: Trump supporter and proctologist.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many tourists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Six: One to hold the bulb and five to ask for directions. #joke #FridayFeeling
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? Look, I can't go into hypotheticals right now. But they have promised they will have the capacity to change a lightbulb by the end of the month.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Joke: How many …’fans’ does it take to change a lightbulb? *None, they just sit around talking about how great the old one was. What’s your best joke?
@2010LeeHurst "How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb?" “Don’t know but the Russians did it”
how many crackheads does it take to change a lightbulb?
It’s a bit like “how many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb?” It’s obvious, countries that have imposed masks are more successful and you don’t have to buy them. Any idiot can make them, lie in Czech Republic. No strain on supplies to health workers! Just do it!
Is this after you told them your famous "How many councillors does it take to change a lightbulb" joke?
"How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Yeah, like that's a real lightbulb!"
How many south Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A whole Brazillion!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? --> None that's a hardware problem
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb ?? ZERO. They don’t work. A conservative does it and his taxes for doing it pay for the democrats freebies.
How many MAGAts does it take to change a lightbulb in their own rear ends? Two. One to pull out the bulb & the second to tweeze out the shards of broken glass.
how many gods does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many performance artists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. I don't know either. I left after four and a half hours
"how many dr. phil producers does it take to change a lightbulb" אני בוכה
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Their butler changes the lightbulb
How many eye doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? One or two? One... or two?
How many skateboarders does it take to change a lightbulb? 1... but it will take them 1,000 tries! Jokes aside, we are hiring a lot of skateboarders this summer! Fill out your online application today! https://bit.ly/work4slag
How many therapist does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one because the therapist has to change.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One... ...but the lightbulb has to want to change
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Thanks for the opportunity mate, How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb ? One, they’re efficient and not very funny
How many photographer’s does it take to change a lightbulb? No idea but they'll do it in a flash #photography #joke
How many WASPS does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to mix the martinis and one to call the electrician.
How many Irish Times journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? Who knows, but it takes five to write a breathless article about a bleeding obvious govt memo which merely notes challenges with opening the economy, international travel, reduced income, increased debt....
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s a really obscure number, actually. You’ve probably never heard of it.
@WWEViciousARMY Got a quick one for you brother: how many corpses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One But the light has to really want to change.
How many Guides does it take to change a lightbulb? Our girls of all ages are having fun learning #SkillsForLife with our #HomeSweetHome badge https://ggsw.org.uk/challenge-badge-homesweethome… #GirlsCan #Girlguiding
How many KSI’s does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many horror authors does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One. He unscrews the old one, breaks it, kills all the others with the shards of glass in a ritualistic sacrifice to open up a cosmic portal to hell where the lightbulb used to be."
How many pannells does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Corbynistas does it take to change a lightbulb? None. We’d much rather stay in the dark.
how many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? apparently more than six cause my basement is still pitch black
How many tsars does it take to change a lightbulb?
INVERSE CONVERSE DIVERSE PERVERSE UNIVERSE....NEVER REVERSE HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I DON'T KNOW EITHER, BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT.... YUK YUK TIS TO MERRY CHRISTMAS! HONK! VOTE VOTE VOTE & VOTE! ! IN THE WHITE HOUSE!
Barr is working to surpass Trump in bending the law. How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They certainly not get the property anyway.
Q: How many members of the Trump administration does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but I would like you to do us a favor though...
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? --> Let's go ride bikes!
How many Israeli cabinet ministers does it take to change a lightbulb ? #Israel #bibi2020
I doubt this topic falls under the umbrella of an educational organization like USCAP. How many societies does it take to change a lightbulb.....
How many members of ‘government’ does it take to change a lightbulb? First procure the lightbulb. Yes I know you can buy one from Tesco, but does it meet our specification? First find the spec, then go to tender to at least 3 suppliers, including 2 who only make gaslights.....
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many conservative ministers does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many members of our Conservative ‘government’ does it take to change a lightbulb?" None They declare darkness the new norm
How many Corona Protesters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Darkness is their preferred option.
How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? There are several competing schools of thought on this, but all have failed to answer this question so far.
Hmm...and begs the question how many men does it take to change a lightbulb - and that one could be argued all day, depending on man, mood, and effort involved.
How many members of our Conservative ‘government’ does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
#booty #r4r #sex #26 [F4R] Germany/Anywhere - How many redditors does it take to change a lightbulb? https://ift.tt/2KnWgG5
how many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? none, feminists can’t change anything
how many people with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Kushner’s on it.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they can't change anything (This is a joke)
1. Saw a cropped image of this “how many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb” newspaper clipping floating around. Enjoy! (See below for my attempts to find original source.)
How many Emos does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just sit in the dark crying
How many Wiesmen does it take to change a lightbulb None Wiesmen don't believe in light
Hey Weejah, thanks for clearing that up. Great journalism. How many dangerous bumbling Chinese does it take to change a lightbulb? The same amount as it takes to infect Planet Earth with a deadly plague and then lie about it.. #BoycottChina #ChinaLiedPeopleDied #ChineseVirus
Q: How many Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The Jews will not replace us!!!
I demand clarification on when food can be considered “hot”. Is it 285 Kelvin, or 284? And how many Sorites does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many Marc’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, he holds it and the whole world revolves around him
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That’s a hardware problem. // 我就记得这一个。
@DETRJobConnect @GovSisolak @SenJackyRosen @SenCortezMasto @MarkAmodeiNV2 Q: How many DETR unemployment employees does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Screw the light....have them answer the phone #nevada #nevadastrong #nevadaunemployment #nvunemployed
-How many producers does it take to change a lightbulb? -Does it have to be a lightbulb?
@NiallOfficial How many Niall's does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Freudian Psychoanalysts does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change the bulb, the other to hold the penis - sorry, stepladder.
How many academic economists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? Not six cuz my basement is still dark af.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb ? Only one , but the lightbulb has to really want to change ...
How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But it had to want to change.
How many Protestants. Does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they all live in perpetual darkness. Sister Mary Immaculate.
How many 'nam vets does it take to change a lightbulb? YOU WEREN'T THERE MAAAAAANNNNNNN!!!!!
How many C++ programmers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Daily Telegraph readers does it take to change a lightbulb? "..............change?"
#SocialDistance Day 39 - Q: How many political theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Why the obsession with quantitative methodology...and why is it so dark in here? Hello? Anybody? #SocialConstructionism #positivism #CriticalRealism #LovePoliticalTheory @HuronPoliSci
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb?,A Brazilian
Q. How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? A. I think you'll find that the correct term is "replace"
This reminds me of the joke How many surrealist does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they prefer to work in darkness so their crimes are hidden. #DemocratsAreDestroyingAmerica
Reminds me of my favourite joke of 2012: "How many Group 4 personnel does it take to change a lightbulb?" . . . . "3 soldiers and a policeman."
I want accounts of regressive behaviour: Door slams. Turning up Nick Drake too loud cause ONLY HE UNDERSTANDS archaic sandwich fillings. My favourite joke about @weeshtyouse Q:How many Irish mothers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: ach sure I'm fine here in the dark.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb?,Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to...WANT to change
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None. They sit in the dark and wait for the private sector to do it.
How many government workers does it take to change a lightbulb? Used to be a joke, but it's a legit question now.
What's the difference between a feminist and a knife? The knife has a point.. How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten. One to change the bulb and nine to blog about how empowering it was..
Q: How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Three. One to climb the ladder. One to shake it. And one to sue the ladder company. #imissuk #coronago #bptc #throwback @ The Honourable Society of… https://instagram.com/p/B_KKzlkHai-/?igshid=15khc158efezw…
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
How many introverts does it take to change a lightbulb? Why does it have to be a group activity?
How many PhDs does it take to change a lightbulb? 50! 1 to hold the lightbulb and 49 to turn the ladder.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten. One to change the bulb and nine to blog about how empowering it was..
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten. One to change the bulb and nine to blog about how empowering it was..
Ok you talked me into it. Last one, maybe.. How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten. One to change the bulb and nine to blog about how empowering it was..
"A priest, a rabbi, and Big Brother walk into a bar..." "How many Eurasians does it take to change a lightbulb?" #INGSOCJokes
How many software developers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. It's a hardware problem.
how many crumbs does it take to change a lightbulb? 42! and one ty! for emotional support
How many beginning jugglers does it take to change a lightbulb? One. And a LOT of lightbulbs.
How many Ministers of Health @shandro does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but he has to destroy the contract with the utility company first.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb?,Let's go ride bikes!
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ok,how many? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Great answers all round! But the winner is (with 46 likes) @bryan_dutch ! How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb
how many vegans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None They use gaslighting
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many @corkcityfc fans does it take to change a lightbulb? The answer is of course a majority. In reality the answer is 1, the current @forastrust chairman. And we’re not talking lightbulbs we’re talking club ownership. #Careyonavirus #NotAScooby #SaveOurCity
how many bbp members does it take to change a lightbulb
How many union members does it take to change a lightbulb? 7. You got a fuckin’ problem with that???
How many witches does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. They change them into frogs. https://punsandoneliners.com/randomness/frog-jokes/… #Frog #FrogJokes #Joke #Humour
How many people on twitter does it take to change a lightbulb....... literally.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many percussionists does it take to change a lightbulb? “I’m sorry, sir, there’s nobody on the lightbulb part.”
How many ranch dudes does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many rednecks does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. They don't have electricity.
How many trumpet players does it take to change a lightbulb? We never know. They just keep pushing each other off the ladder and saying "I can get higher than that..."
How many soldiers does it take to change a lightbulb? Wouldn't know. We're always kept in the dark.
How many choral conductors does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows... they never watch the conductor.
A joke I recently read and am happy to share: How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We are very efficient and don't have humour.
Kai: how many taehyun’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Yeonjun: just one. The real question is how many ladders does he need? Taehyun: Taehyun: YOU-
How many government officials does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to ignore how other people change lightbulbs, 1 to blame the light recipients that they were in darkness 1 to distribute 'we love bulbs' badge, & not change the bulb 1 to suggest the bulb couldnt be predicted...
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
My joke for the day! How many Corbynites does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb does not need changing, has proven right, it’s a nasty smear to say that it is starting a fire in the ceiling. #JC4PM. Nominated: @AiryManning @kirstenstauffe1 @francesweetman @LehiRed
Complete today’s #ActorJoke How many Actors does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer with the most likes by this time tomorrow gets published on our Instagram & gets a free Pro subscription to WeAudition
How many stereotypes does it take to change a lightbulb? I’m not a racist, but that lightbulb never qwhite worked properly. I don’t even like strawberries.
How many NHS volunteers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NHS volunteers does it take to change a lightbulb? 171.4
How many sadists does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE MUAHAHAHA
How many M. Night Shyamalan's does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The bulb has been changed this whole time. @MNightShyamalan
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One or two? One... ...or two?
Q: How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. 3 years later, they’ll still be sitting in the dark and blaming Obama.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. But the light bulb REALLY has to want to change.
How many Freudian Analysts does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. 1 to actually switch the new bulb in, and the other to hold the penis. I mean ladder!
Q. How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. Trump tells them it has been changed and they all sit in the dark and applaud. .
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb? We now have the answer
“How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?”
-How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? -More than 17. My basement is still too dark
How many Virginians does it take to change a lightbulb? One to change it and six to stand around and say how much better the old one was....
How many photographers does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but 200 others will tell them how it should have been done
How many rangers fans does it take to change a lightbulb..... It’s does really matter coz once it’s changed, they’ll just insist it’s still the same lightbulb!!!
How many dicks does it take to change a lightbulb, looks like you have to ask trump.
How many physicists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? one but the lightbulb really has to want to change
I love this one because of my German ancestry: How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We are very efficient and have no sense of humor.
feel like this is some dumb how-many-does-it-take-to-change-a-lightbulb joke.. but just the punchline.
You're Prog. Think about it. Like.. Q. How many Prog fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Fish.
Let me give you an example. How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb ? Answer : none ! They just beat the room for being dark. A very hurtful and dark joke in the beginning nut it sparks an actual conversation about what's happening in society. That's how humor wrk
This is just like how many Pollocks does it take to change a lightbulb, how many police does it take to arrest an ex-police officer and his daughter playing in an empty Park, wake up people pull your heads out of your asses
How many princesses does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many admins does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb
How many unicorns does it take to change a lightbulb, find out @TheConniii http://twitch.tv/theconniii
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
Q: How many #Victorians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Three. One to hold the ladder, one to change the bulb and one in a blue uniform to write the $1652 fine. #auspol #coronavirusaus #COVID19Aus #coronavirus
How many waddle Dee does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Cuomo.
Yikes, how many coppers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to raise taxes to fix it, 1 to call him a racist, 6 to manage an environmental impact study... 1 to screw the bulb into the water tap and 1 to announce that guavament is doing all it can to remedy the situation
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many 5G Truthers does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. One brave enough to get near something emitting EMR, and 99 to write about it on social media.
Dylan: “How many Traxler’s does it take to change a lightbulb?” Me, dad, mom:... Dylan: “We’ll be late to change the lightbulb”
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many #economists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
how many labour supporters does it take to change a lightbulb, ardern and 291,969 who received a 29% increase in benefit entitlements, from labours department of fairy dust, get back to work
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Still got your sense of humor. How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them everything is fine and they applaud in the dark.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they’re still using Gaslighting!
How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They still use gaslighting.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. And they install an LED bulb. They're efficient and have no sense of humour.
How many software developers does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. A lightbulb is a hardware problem.
How many folk singers does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten, one to change it, nine to sing about how good the old one was........(too long?)
Ahsoka: [comming Anakin] “hey master, how many Padawans does it take to change a lightbulb?” Anakin: “what?” [a loud crash and the sound of glass shattering from Ahsoka’s end] Ahsoka: “apparently more than one could you please come and help me?”
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Answer to a profound question: "How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?"
Credit to Incline Village Q: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in a Facebook group? 1 to change the light bulb and to post that the light bulb has been changed. 14 to share similar experiences of changing light bulbs and how the light bulb could have been /1
Q. How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A. More guns!
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many marmalade sandwiches does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many brown nosers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadjokes
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Lass does it take to change a lightbulb? One but her leaking breast caused water damage.
How many poets does it take to change a lightbulb? https://americanlifeinpoetry.org/columns/current
How many butches does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them, apparently. #butchsolidarity @tmagazine
Wow. How many lying Liars does it take to change a lightbulb? Put them all together in a room, call them Republicans and wait for the lies to spew forth like bad-dairy diarrhea. Smell the stink? Another Republican must be talkin.
you must have criticized Trump. How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? ZERO. Trump will tell them he changed it, and they will sit in the dark and applaud.
How many Evangelical Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? One... to hold the bulb steady and ten thousand to turn the house around.
One might think ‘how lazy’, I also read how many __ does it take to change a lightbulb but I love this idea, if you have high ceilings, this would be awesome! not to mention the safety aspect.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb?,Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
I'll donate if you please rate my joke out of ten. . Q) How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? A) None. Change can only come from within.
Q) How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? A) None. Change can only come from within. .
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? Or does it?
how many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! their butler changes the lightbulb
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? Or does it?
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One but the lightbulb really asked one change
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJoke #dadJokes
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many humans does it take to change a lightbulb 3/5
How many roadies does it take to change a lightbulb? Two... one two... one two... two two
Question: How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: The term is "replace" actually.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Spaniards does it take to change a lightbulb. http://rviv.ly/FINwtD
How many Christians does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Jesus already did it. All we have to do is flip on the switch. Happy #Easter, friends! :-)￼
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
An old joke that applies to SAFe as well: How many Microsoft programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. We'll just redefine darkness as the new industry standard. SAFe: let's just redefine waterfall (or DarkAgile) as the new industry standard.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? --- Screw it, we’ve got lighters! #TriHealthy #JokeOfTheDay #goodvibes #hempoil #cbd #hemp #cbdoil #cannabis #cbdlife #cannabiscommunity #cbdhealth #cbdheals #cbdproducts #cbdmovement #cbdcommunity #wellness #health
how many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 One to hold the ladder and one to sue the ladder company
@WHereaka Q. How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. You're not changing anything!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? The correct term is 'replace', actually.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb?,A Brazilian
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? The correct term is 'replace', actually.
How many idioms does it take to change a lightbulb? All things considered that’s up in the air at the moment and we need to think outside the box and move up in the world.
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? You don’t ‘change’ a lightbulb, you ‘replace’ it....
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? ... the correct word is ‘replace’, actually
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadjokes
How many black people does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they live in trap houses and their only source of light is lighters and blunts ahahahahahah
How many Lutherans does it take to change a lightbulb? *panicked scream* CHANGE?!?
Chair: How many faculty members does it take to change a lightbulb? Faculty: Change?!
How many magaheads does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they would rather sit in the dark and blaim Obama.
Q: How many altos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they can’t get up that high
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They certainly not get the house anyway.
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? The correct term is 'replace', actually.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
I thought the joke was... How many Evertonians does it take to change a lightbulb?
That does remind me of the old Microsoft joke: Question: How many Microserfs does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None, they leave it as is and declare darkness the standard.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they arrest the bulb for being broke, beat the room for being black and then retroactively charge it with resisting arrest.
Send your best response! How many researchers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fuck knows, but it takes a global pandemic #DailyBriefing
How many librarians does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but you need to have a new lightbulb to replace the old one. Doh. And bugger.
Yesterday we asked. How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb. Today's question is. How long does it take 4 Trumps to dig a tonne of crap from one place to another.
#Questions: How many #grammar #Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? #Answer: Too.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? Seems excessive don’t you think?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? THAT’S NOT A LIGHTBULB, DO YOUR RESEARCH!
how many beatles does it take to change a lightbulb
How many do nothing Dens does it take to change a lightbulb. NONE They'll just blame the Republicans & complain it's dark, staying that they're better lightbulb changers & the Republicans won't change it.
How many tenors does it take to change a lightbulb lads XXX
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? - NONE. They just sit in the dark and say how light it is because Donald said it was.
How about: Two cows were standing in a field. Suddenly one says “MOOOO!” The other one turns to her and says “Damn! I was just gonna say that!” Or: How many anticlimaxes does it take to change a lightbulb? Around four.
How many Steelers fans does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t matter, they keep talking about great the last one was..
How many Chinese Communists, does it take to change a lightbulb?...................There is nothing wrong with the lightbulb. @realDonaldTrump @BorisJohnson @thetimes @DailyMailUK #ChinaMustExplain #CoronaCrisisuk #COVID19 #COVIDー19 #comunist #ChinaLiedAndPeopleDied #China
Okay, I will acquiesce to her demands and tell a joke. How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish.
How many 16 year old girls does it take to change a lightbulb? What. Ever.
From a professor who I know: Q. How many archaeology students does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None they just get daddy to buy them a new flat
Spent 24hours setting up every tech device I've ever received as gift and never had the time to pay attention to until #lockdown Me: Alexa tell me a joke "How many Princesses does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Princesses don't change lightbulbs She knows me already!
#BadJokeFriday How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One... or two?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
@LGBAllianceManc Here’s a good one How many LGB Alliance members does it take to change a lightbulb? - difficult to say, because they’re constantly round their neighbours house instructing them how to change theirs!
@AllianceLGB Here’s a good one How many LGB Alliance members does it take to change a lightbulb? - difficult to say, because they’re constantly at their neighbours next door shouting instructions thru the letterbox about how THEY should be changing theirs
How many Karen's does it take to change a lightbulb?? None, cancer cells cannot change lightbulbs
how many pisces does it take to change a lightbulb, you ask? none. if u put us all in a room together we’re just gonna lay in the grass outside and romanticize our sadness together n talk about our dreams n forget about the lightbulb entirely
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many time lords does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they wait for it to regenerate. https://punsandoneliners.com/randomness/doctor-who-jokes/… #DrWho #DrWhoJokes #Joke #Humour
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Telephone box
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but only if it really wants to change.
Q: How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Juan #badjokethursday #lockdown
- how many people going into Tescos does it take to change a lightbulb? - ONLY ONE AT A TIME
By yourself? OMG Cause that’s the answer to the age old question how many gays does it take to change a lightbulb
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #pun / #dadjoke
How many 5G conspiracists does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t have lightbulbs cos the electromagnetic energy fries their brains making them susceptible to zionist robot octopuses They just eat Fray Bentos pies straight from the tin with their bare hands in the dark
Q: How many Chinese Government Officials does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Bats
How many Vince Russo's does it take to change a lightbulb? SWERVE. The lightbulb didn't need changing.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? That’s a trick question feminists can’t change anything
How many anti-5g activists does it take to change a lightbulb? 1080
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q. How many Californians does it take to change a lightbulb? A. 500, one to change the bulb, 499 extras for the production.
How many failed idiot former PM’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Not a bright spark in any of them.
Question...How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer...A fish.
That’s a lot of people failing badly with their social distancing! How many Chinese does it take to change a lightbulb or barricade a door?
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but only if the lightbulb wants to change.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. He holds the bulb while the world revolves around him.
How many grad students does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it takes 10 years.
How many boring people does it take to change a lightbulb? One #pointless #noonelikespuns
How many black cats does it take to change a lightbulb, Claudia?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Dragon Ball characters does it take to change a lightbulb 1 but it will take 9 Episodes (and filler) to do it
The only downer has been my musician friends introducing me to the vast genre of viola related jokes. E.g: Q: How many violaists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they can't go that high.
Q: How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None; they'd rather sit in the dark to 'own the libs.'
How many navy secretaries does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they are not there long enough to have one fail.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb... Don’t be silly! Feminists can’t change anything!
The facilities person is #StayHomeStaySafe. Which makes me think, how many White House staff members does it take to change a lightbulb?
on this episode of how many fags does it take to change a lightbulb
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to WANT to change.
How many Yeti’s does it take to change a lightbulb??? @ Tejas To Go Market https://instagram.com/p/B-sbTsjJNFP/?igshid=1nokps4i4b4cu…
@kevincorke “How many Aggies does it take to change a lightbulb ?”
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many anti-climaxes does it take to change a lightbulb three
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadJoke #RandomJokesIO
How many Dragon Ball Z characters does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but it will take 6 episodes
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw in the light bulb and one to hold the penis..., sorry I mean ladder.
How Many Surrealists does it take to change a Lightbulb? ...Fish Fingers.
How many Libs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they would spend millions on committees to why the lightbulb didn't work, & blame everyone else for it not working, while still sitting in the dark.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb....
How many millennials does it take to change a lightbulb? As a millennial myself, I don’t know… BUT I can Google that for you.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Steelers fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all talk about how good the old ones were.
I stole this from a much funnier person. "How many anti-5G activists does it take to change a lightbulb?" "1080."
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
Lol! Ok here’s mine: How many rapstars does it take to change a lightbulb?
Nine people to write a rehash of what has already appeared elsewhere many times over. How many people does it take to change a lightbulb at Reuters? https://nytimes.com/reuters/2020/04/06/world/asia/06reuters-health-coronavirus-japan-hospitals.html…
How many Yashars does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian, Baby
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still use gaslighting.
How many Narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still use gaslighting.
How many Tracer’s does it take to change a lightbulb?? Or something... . Happy Monday! (Is it Monday?) . This was a little while ago when we could still leave the house and getting dressed was necessary to go… https://instagram.com/p/B-otRJphgMT/?igshid=1dyedpvqv9tlj…
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
“How many feminist does it take to change a lightbulb?” “None because feminist can’t change anything”
@DocAtCDI How many old boyfriends does it take to change a lightbulb? - - - None. Some men just refuse to change! #WashYourHands #COVID19 #WeAreAllInThisTogether
How many trumpet players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change it, the other four to complain about how much better they could have done it
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many existentialists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to observe how the lightbulb symbolizes an incandescent beacon of subjectivity in a netherworld of Cosmic Nothingness.
In a cartoon, when a character gets a great idea, a lightbulb appears above their head. And the classic joke starts “how many _ does it take to change a lightbulb”. But now I’m sitting here thinking “how many lightbulbs does it take to change the world?” #Deep #QuarantineThoughs
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many chiropractors does it take to change a lightbulb ? Only one - but it takes 15 visits.
That reminds me of this joke: How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: 1 and it’s not funny.
How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? The fish.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but it takes 24hours to get it from @BandQ Should’ve queued at the supermarket
How many journos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many ex TPMs does it take to change a lightbulb? 2
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb
How many chefs does it take to change a lightbulb? #FoodWars
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
That seems like a more accurate comparison to me. But can people lose their fetishes? I have to imagine therapy would help. I'm reminded of a joke: How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
How many ex DPM does it take to change a lightbulb? 2
How many celebrities does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but it takes forever because they just put the bulb in the socket, and wait for the world to revolve around them..
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many celebrities does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but it takes forever because they just put the bulb in the socket, and wait for the world to revolve around them..
Q: How many Donald Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just one, so long as you don't get all hung up about him replacing it with an empty spaghettio can. #Heisajoke #25thAmendmentNow
Question: How many sportscasters does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: More than me. Two broken ... so far.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? That's not funny.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Wanna joke? How many mask wearers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they crashed the economy and there is no electricity. Get over it y'all
“How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb “
One. How many psychics does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many @FineGael senators does it take to change a lightbulb? Change? Lolcano.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian#कूपया घरमै बसौ
Reminds me of the old joke How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb The fish
How many sociologists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan
How many mask-wearers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they keep breaking them trying to flatten the curve.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb. Well in 1973 at @QPR one mad #BluePeter presenter
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?...is just one of the questions I should have asked before buying this lighthouse...
How many dyslectics does it take to change a lightbulb ? Steven.
This looks very inefficient. It reminds me of a “how many______does it take to change a lightbulb” joke.
How many self-quarantined family members does it take to change a lightbulb? None, no one is risking going out just to buy a fucking lightbulb.
How many journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . All of them. One to replace the bulb and the rest to screw it up. #journalistjokes
How many @McHughJoeTD.s does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just leave the old light bulb there even though it isn't fucking working anymore. #LeavingCert #CancelTheLC
@DocAtCDI Q. How many Ivankas does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. Her nails are way too long for that. But she’ll ask the “undocumented” nanny to do it while Ivanka toils away on the sequel to her book “Women Who Work.” #WashYourHands of Guilt #WearAMask Shame!
How many introverts does it take to change a lightbulb? Why does it have to be a group activity... ಠ_ಠ
@DocAtCDI Q. How many Jared Kushners does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. He would never get his hands dirty with manual labor. He will, however, ask contractors to bid on the job while he reads books on lightbulbs and then issues a 200 page report. #COVID19
How many GMs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it's working as intended.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb springs to mind.
"How many USS managers does it take to change a lightbulb?" "I don't know. How many USS managers does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Six thousand seven hundred and two." "Why?" "Of course I wouldn't expect *you* to understand." [From an original joke in the Rhind Papyrus.]
How many Men’s Rights Activists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they still use gaslighting (credit for joke unknown)
Reminds me of my favourite Prolog joke: How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? No
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Twenty. One to hold the bulb, and nineteen to drink until the room spins.
@DocAtCDI How many Heads of the WH #CoronavirusUSA Task Force does it take to change a lightbulb? {I’m going to leave this one in the dark for a while. Any suggestions?}
How many Biden supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?none they don't do shit they just complain about how dark it is. President Trump will be re-elected by a landslide including winning California guaranteed!
How many soldiers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Isolation day 17: We had our first power cut today! How many blind people does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, with 10 sighted people congratulating them on doing it all by themselves! #COVID-19 #Isolation #BlindReality #PatronisingBastards! #ItsBeenABadDay
How many patriots does it take to change a lightbulb?
#BorisJohnson How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb. Every single one of em But afterwards people are still left in total darkness Sad indictment #BorisJohnsonCoronavirus
“How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb?“ Answer: “Enough questions! SHOW ME YOUR PAPERS”
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they blame Republicans for it and wait for the government to fix it for them while they sit in the dark
How many kindred does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. Just get Lyell to do it he has an engineering degree & is overqualified
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? We’re still waiting but don’t hold yer breath
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one, or two? One,or two?
How many woman does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 One to do it and one to tell her how to do it!
How many marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The lightbulb contains the seed of its own revolution. #BadJokes
How many introverts does it take to change a lightbulb? 7 Billion, can't go out anyway.#comedy
how many general relativity scientists does it take to change a lightbulb two, one to hold to the bulb and the other to rotate the universe
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb springs to mind
How many lightbulbs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None..they sit in the dark & wait for the private sector to do it.
How many dems does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they wait for their overinflated government to do it for them.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many eksdom employees does it take to change a lightbulb? literally no one knows
I was gonna ask how much do your shoulders measure, but now I have a better question How many Ices does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Dems does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the lightbulb must want to change
Reminds me of a US Republican joke. Adapted: How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Boris says it's fixed, and they all clap in the dark.
How many Buttholes does it take to change a lightbulb??? Zero, cuz its a butthole you dumb bitch.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: 5, one to change the lightbulb and 4 to stand around and talk about how Neil Peart would have done it better
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #FunniestTweets
how many gecs does it take to change a lightbulb
Working from home thougths...how many caped crusaders does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they like the Dark Knight! #FlattenTheCurveTogether #stayhomesavelives #Batman66
Q Bear quarantine day 15 - How many bears does it take to change a lightbulb?
@DocAtCDI Q. How many Mexican Drug Smugglers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. Nobody is smuggling anything now because they are sheltering in place. So the tunnels built under “The Wall” can stay dark. #WearAMask to smuggle #WashYourHands #Mexico #TrumpVirus
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #pun / #dadjoke
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many of you people does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many acura s does it take to change a lightbulb?
#FoolABlonde How many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb?....Blondes don't change light bulbs!
Not even "How many Fronsies does it take to change a lightbulb?"?
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? Connor: Change? Amateurs!
How many minimalists does it take to change a lightbulb? None
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump said he fixed it, so they all sit in the dark and applaud. Follow the advice of Governors Newsom and Cuomo. #OneVoice1 #TrumpLiesAmericansDie #TrumpIsA_DANGER_ToAmerica #TrumpIsACompleteFailure
How many Chief Audience Officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump said he fixed it, so they all sit in the dark and applaud. #OneVoice1
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They certainly not get the home in any case.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? As many as you can find. One might actually do it.
Q: How many government press officers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Since the restrictions have been imposed, luminosity of the bulb has increased 10% week by week. It does not changing.
Q: How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The lightbulb will light up again by itself. It will be a miracle. I really get this stuff. Believe me. We’re doing an unbelievable job with the lightbulb.
How many country singers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to do it and one to sing a song about all the good times he had with the old light bulb.
Balloon: How many Ersa's does it take to change a lightbulb? Foxy: One, but the real question is how many ladders she will need. Ersa: |Offended noises.|
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Art Directors does it take to change a lightbulb? Does it have to be a lightbulb?
how many american police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? none. they'll arrest the lamp for being broke and beat the room for being black.
Q. How many Christians does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Three, but they're really one!
How many pirates does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they just stand around ARRRrrguing about it!
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None..they sit in the dark & wait for the private sector to do it...with price-gouging.
> How many chickens does it take to change a lightbulb? No, that's not right. > Why did the meteorologist cross the road? I'm confused.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
Q: how many paedophiles does it take to change a lightbulb? A: why do you need to know, you fucking NONCE?
How many epidemiologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but what's your denominator? https://youtube.com/watch?v=Vhh_GeBPOhs… (replace developers=denominators)
How many of Carol's husbands does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Tory cabinet ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? Hard to say, they keep nicking them.
Q: How many coronavirus particles does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Because it’s too soon to make light of this.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb - cross out lightbulb, put in fix a #telecenter. Heres a big idea: Hire a few people that have tele experience to help!! or DO NOTHING and say "not my problem". A staff of what 15 making $170+/yr - no chg @govwhitmer @freep
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Elle: how many Raines does it take to change a lightbulb? Raine: i dont know, how many? Elle: just one. the real question is how many ladders you need Raine: [offended noices]
How many College Dems does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, as long as they call YDSA to get the job done.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
Q. What do you do if a woman comes out of the kitchen complaining? A. Make the chain shorter. Q. How many sexists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. Let the bitch cook in the dark! Q. How many men does it take to mop a floor? A. None. It's a woman's job.
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None..they just sit in the dark & wait for the private sector to do it.
#AskBradley how many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE, Trump just says it's fixed and the rest of you sit in the dark and applaud!
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many atheists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: one to actually change the bulb, the other one to videotape it so the Christian's can't claim, "Gawd dun it!" Lol
How many nagys does it take to change a lightbulb
How many ventriloquists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change the gulg & one to holg the lagger
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has really got to want to change.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
People always asking "how many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb" but never asking "how many lightbulbs to change them"
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the lightbulb really has to want to change. Contributor: Louise Nicholls [FB]
How many lukes does it take to change a lightbulb #ask5sos
#stopAiringTrump...most of what he says is 'aspirational', as he admits himself. And it just reminds people of 'How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb?" Answer" "None, they sit in the dark & wait for the private sector to do it."
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
how many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb none because they don’t change anything
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many people in quarantine does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q.. How many roadies does it take to change a lightbulb..... A.... I dunno... 1-2... 1-2..
VIRAL HUMOR Q: How many corona viruses does it take to change a lightbulb? A: There aren’t any lightbulbs left. We’re all going to die! Give me that lightbulb. I’ll kill you. I swear to god I’ll rip out you heart with my bear hands. #seattle #coronavirus #funnyordie
@DocAtCDI How many nuns does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They change them religiously, out of habit.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many sanghis does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The leader declares all lightbulbs illegal from midnight at an 8PM address to the nation. The others call it a masterstroke
How many Op-Eds does it take to change a lightbulb? The Op-Ed is a way for men to compete against each other to see who can use the most big words without saying anything. Enlightenment is not part of the process.
There's a "how many does it take to change a lightbulb?" type of joke here...
Just in... Q: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump just says it's fixed and the rest of them applaud in the dark. #USA #TrumpLiesAboutCoronavirus #GOP #NY #GodSaveAmericabecauseTrumpwont
how many @mulaney’s does it take to change a lightbulb just one to turn it into a stand up bit
From one of my kids... How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump just tells them it’s done and they sit in the dark and applaud. #TrumpMadness
How many truly dense people does it take to change a lightbulb, in a pitch black room?
anyone else wanna bet that "failure to social distance while being black" is the number one crime found by NYPD ? how many NYPD officers does it take to change a lightbulb ? they don't bother; cause the room is black they just trash it
How many soulboys does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many pseudo feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten. One to change the lightbulb and nine to blog about how empowering it was.
How many Lord Admirals of Kul Tiras/ Archmages of the Kirin Tor does it take to change a lightbulb? Just me, but it takes me a month because I keep forgetting about it.
"How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb?", I believe. I featured that in Reader's Digest, once.
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
Q: How many Brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? A : It’s China’s fault
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb. 1. Because they are ruthlessly efficient and have no sense of humour.
Yes. How many alzheimers' sufferers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
if i say “how many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they don’t know how” it’s a garbage joke based on a stereotype. not all blondes are stupid hair color has nothing to do with intelligence, it’s just a joke. the meme is making fun of the ussr my guy
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Ninjas does it take to change a lightbulb? You'll never know--it will just be changed suddenly.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently just one drunk one
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to...WANT to change
Gene Hunt joke how many birds does it take to change a lightbulb ? 2, 1 to run around screaming what do I do and the other to shag the electrician
How many durte doms does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many economists does it take to change a lightbulb? Or something.
How many DBZ characters does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but it takes 97 episodes. #dbz #nerdy #anime #jokes #coronavirus #COVID19
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One, they're efficient and not very funny.
How many directors does it take to change a lightbulb?
"1. They're efficient and don't have a sense of humour." Is actually the punchline to "How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb?" @lazaroumterror
you could be washing down the Derby racer or sprucing the alice ride up how many managers does it take to change a lightbulb? springs to mind
Q: How many NDP supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: That's not funny!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Q: How many Neanderthals does it take to change a lightbulb? A: All of them.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many lux skins does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cars does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many mathematicians does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. One, who can screw out the old build and replace it with a new one 2. There exists an established solution 3. Only half of all mathematicians can count that high 4. X, where X is a whole number
How many @WhiteHouse press corps does it take to change a lightbulb? #SocialDistanacing #COVID19
Stop me if you heard this one before....How many Trump aids does it take to change a lightbulb....? #CoronaLockdown #CoronaVillains #coronavirus #LockdownCanada #NoCanadian
@Hozier You asked 4 jokes on your live stream so I posted a few but I couldn’t fit the last one in so: How many lead guitar players does it take to change a lightbulb? 1001. 1 to change the bulb,500 to say the could do it technically better. 500 to say they could do it more feel!
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
Is this kinda like "how many (blank) does it take to change a lightbulb?"
i think im how many cops does it take to change a lightbulb ?
Question: How many NRA members with AR 15 s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many deputy chief medical officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but the light bulb really has to want to change. ((I laughed too hard at this // send help))
How many pandemic-deniers does it take to change a lightbulb? Fifty-one, in violation of the ban on large gatherings. #cornyvirus #jokes (orig: http://colintedford.com/2020/pandemic-deniers-lightbulb/…)
How many bottoms does it take to change a lightbulb
Chair: How many faculty members does it take to change a lightbulb? Faculty: Change?! Contributor: @Beaupittnyc
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They wouldn't do it. It's a hardware problem.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. All they hav to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around them. #Psychologyjokes
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They will just beat the room because it's black
Q: How many Conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? A(Conservatives): We didn't pick the bulb, it was the Liberal's fault it blew out. Our bulbs would never blow out which is why you trust us and not Liberals! The Liberals are stealing power and eating bulbs!
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None..they sit in the dark and wait for the private sector to do it.
To be fair, I don't even have any spare bulbs should I have one in need of changing. Very much living the 'How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb' joke? One, but it has to really want to change...
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many conspiracy theorists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but I know for a fact that she’s definitely in the illuminati.
So how many psychiatrist does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but it has to want to change.
How many Zen Buddhists does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to change the lightbulb, one to not change the lightbulb, and one to neither change nor not change the lightbulb.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But the lightbulb has to really WANT to change.
- #GamerMeme courtesy of http://REVMC.NET! - Q: How many #silvers does it take to change a #lightbulb? A: None, they can't even climb the #ladder! #GAMING #NOOBS #NEWBS #OVER9000 #GAMERS #GamersRock #FUNNY #awesome #gamer #gaming #lol #nerd #gfuel #game #meme #dank
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
Metaphor!!! How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb , Only one but the lightbulb must really want to change. Hope Polifictions are able to understand metaphors MASKS!!! Help the MEDICS
RT @UncleDuke1969: ME: "How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?" CAT: ... ME: ... CAT: [getting up] "You can just ask me like a normal person, you know."
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
#CoronavirusJokes How many doctors does it take to change a lightbulb? None. We don't have enough tests; keep 'em in the dark.
How many public health experts does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn’t matter as long as they are more than six feet apart. #CoronavirusJokes
#CoronavirusJokes How many suspected #COVID19 patients does it take to change a lightbulb? None; we have no tests. Keep them in the dark.
This reminds me of the old joke, “How many teachers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one but everyone has to go to the meeting.” I love my profession and I’m blessed to do it but man, it attracts busywork lovers.
Only cause watching a broken senate is depressing. How many senators does it take to change a lightbulb? One, competent, unbiased, loyal, non self serving Senator who can communicate with all the other jackels.
same with how many ** does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Jesuits does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. One to call an electrician and one to make martinis.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it’s Obama’s fault, so the Demoohave to fix it.
How many #BMW #Isetta drivers does it take to change a #lightbulb? #BMWClassic #classiccar Answers in the comments.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #RandomJokesIO #dadJokes
How many Buffs fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn’t matter how many, they’ll just keep whining and it will change nothing.
Another unnecessary 170,000 + wandering around spreading things around. Great idea. How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? 1.2 million NHS and another 170,000 wanderers.
How many cabinet ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? They wouldn't do that: it's a job for someone low skilled, sorry a #keyworker. Till then, they'll stay in the dark. #CoronavirusLockdownUK
How many morons does it take to change a lightbulb? 14,000. 1 to hold the lightbulb, 4 to hold the chair, and 13,995 to spin the house. #bot #jokes #fun
Sarah *telling me her new joke*: how many ADD people does it take to change a lightbulb? Me: how many? Sarah: wanna go ride bikes?
How many trumpets does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 but 3 others to say they could’ve done it better.
How many council members does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't be silly, the council can't change anything! Visit your favorite stream on the Citadel at 6PM PST for more Mass Effect 3! (It's getting hard to find a relevant gif for these jokes!) http://twitch.tv/deusjz
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them it’s fixed and they sit around in the dark applauding him
Q: How many Canton Coders does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Sorry, we are a software meetup not hardware. Thanks @gdinwiddie
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Prepare to be inundated with "how many does it take to change a lightbulb" jokes.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Marvellous. I wonder if that was the tour he did with Willie Rushton, where they did a gag along the lines of: How many Jimmy Tarbucks does it take to change a lightbulb? One. The fat little bastard can stand on a chair.
That reminds me of my favourite joke. How many Huddersfield fans does it take to change a lightbulb? Both of them
How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends what it says in the script.
I thought it was hilarious. People have changed, they don't laugh anymore at simple jokes. Ever here this one, How many Italians does it take to change a lightbulb? 4, one to the climb up on the ladder and 3 to turn the letter around.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
@vurnt22 Great guitar players like Vernon should wait for an appropriate time until they spew political venom. Not helpful. It’s like the old joke: how many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. One to change the bulb and 99 to say, “I can do that better.”
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? They won’t change it. They steal the bulbs, blame the Democrats for the darkness, hide the ladder and send thoughts and prayers to those who trip in the dark!
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That’s actually a hardware problem.
How many Boris Johnsons does it take to change a lightbulb? One - but it takes three weeks of constant pressure before he finally accepts he has to change it. #LockdownJokes
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many devs does it take to change a lightbulb? A whole team but they built it in react and it doesn't server side render.
How many page speed SEOs does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but they take forever 'cos they use a lighthouse
How many link building SEOs does it take to change a lightbulb? A whole network and it's going to cost you.
How many content SEOs does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but they keep spinning it
I just had a ‘how many blondes does it take to change a lightbulb’ moment and i’m completly scarred. Petition to let maintence men back in the nursing home! In my defence it was an antique vanity that had a glass casing over it! I still could not feel more like a stereotype...
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One. But the lightbulb has got to want to change.
Second joke of the day (we had to tell you some developer ones! ) How many developers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, thats a hardware problem! #jokes #bespoke #custom #software #developement #staystrong #mondayblues #washyourhands
Q: How many Vietnam veterans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: You don't know.....COZ YOU WEREN'T THERE MAN!!!
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but it has to want to change itself first.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
Riddle: How many Silvermans does it take to change a lightbulb in a ceiling fan?? The answer is none. Because Ive spent 10minutes trying to figure out how to open the thing to get to the bulb. WTF?!?! Peak me during quarantine. BTW...my dad was an electrician
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many kids with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let’s go for ice cream!
how many bidens does it take to change a lightbulb
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? No idea - too hard to measure.
Q. How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. A fish. I'll get my coat.
How many team trvmp members does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, first they would deny it's even burned out, then they'd try to make a pile of money off it while blaming the dems.
how many han jisung does it take to change a lightbulb?
- How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb? - Change?
How many Joe Biden’s does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJoke #RandomJokesIO
How many photographer’s does it take to change a lightbulb? 50, 1 to change the bulb and 49 to say 'I could've done that' #photography #joke
How many meat-eaters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they would rather stay in the dark about things #meatkillseveryone #preventpandemics #coronavirusupdate
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Reminds me of a social work one: How many #SocialWorkers does it take to change a lightbulb? Social workers: “Does it need to be changed? Does it want to change?”
cc @annalisadinn How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to hold the penis. I mean the mother! I MEAN THE LADDER! #philosophyjoke
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the family home anyway.
How many quarantines does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
How many homophobes does it take to change a lightbulb? #noh8
How many armchair epidemiologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One to change it right now, a hundred to change it next week and a million to change it by the end of month.
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?!
Q:How many Microsoft software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They’ve just declared Darkness as an industry standard!
How many administrative staff does it take to change a lightbulb? A: sorry, you need to fill in the requisite forms and obtain all signatures before we can’t help you. But please fill in this survey to tell us more about your experiences with this process.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. In case that the lightbulb agrees to be changed.
finally solved the age old question, "how many alex donalds does it take to change a lightbulb?" and the answer is one, and then a francis to clean up when the alex accidentally smashes it
One more: How many grad students does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. We prefer crying in the dark.
How many Sith does it take to change a lightbulb? 2... obviously
how many drunk laus does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb? As many as it takes, as long as they get their name on the paper.
Q: How many math professors does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One. He recruits a pair of Irishmen, reducing it to a previously solved problem.
Chair: How many faculty members does it take to change a lightbulb? Faculty: Change?!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many 15 year old boys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Your Mum
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q. How many US Senators does it take to change a lightbulb? A. One to steal the lightbulb, three to lie about stealing it, and 96 to do nothing while Americans are in the dark.
I can’t answer that. But. . . How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them. They like to take turns screwing their base.
How many gentiles does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter how many you have - they are forever in darkness :-)
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just 1 but the lightbulb has to want to change! LOL
How many dead male chauvinists does it take to change a lightbulb? Well it's not 6, because my basement is still dark.
How many BBC Breakfast presenters does it take to change a lightbulb? Find out this, and more, after the news, travel and weather where you are.
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb must WANT to change.
@DocAtCDI How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them. They like to take turns screwing the base. #coronavirus #CoronaVirusUpdate #TrumpMeltdown #RepublicanInsiderTrading #GOPBetrayedAmerica #MoscowMitchMcTreason #LeningradLindsey
How many Christian Gods does it take to change a lightbulb? Three, but it's really one.
OF COURSE. HERE IS A GOOD ONE. HOW MANY ALDERAANIANS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB?
Q: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but the lightbulb must really want to change.
"How many Quarantined People does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Lightbulbs? Lightbulbs? Forget lightbulbs - buy all the toilet paper!!"
How many DnD characters does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/DnD https://ift.tt/2J0grJt #DnD #rpg
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb?
sussexroyal are contributing to @ClareJoSamBoo ! Brilliant #sussexroyal #meghanmarkle #megxit #harryandmeghan HOW MANY HARRY AND MEGHANS does it take to change a lightbulb ? Get real! #joke #jokes #jokeable #laugh… https://instagram.com/p/B99Bs_pnhFs/?igshid=1swzktkvkcwnk…
How many members of The Smiths does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many cows does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. Four to stand on top of each other and one to actually moo it.
#badengineerjoke (from my husband the engineer)- How many engineer’s does it take to change a lightbulb (and it works)? One if the lightbulb works (after 3 attempts and all were bad)...
Quarantine day 4 Best loud laugh today from @Kevin_McCloud on catch up “Q How many conservation architects does it take to change a lightbulb? A What do you mean CHANGE??” @granddesigns
How many nannies does it take to change a lightbulb? None because lightbulbs don’t wear diapers!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Their butler changes the lightbulb Always poor Never bored The S.O.C. want Timmy's student loan back He'd happily oblige but he's used it all on gack
How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb.' Answer: None--they just sit in the dark and wait for the private sector to do it.
How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb........too
how many trump administration officials does it take to change a lightbulb two: one to smash the bulb into pieces one to tell trump it's the democrats' fault and all the House dems to try to clean up the mess and get a new bulb
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? I’M NOT CHANGING ANYTHING!!! Sending lots of love
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?
Classic Jokes for Spring 2020 #2: How many people on self-quarantine does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Cause there's only one person in the room.
How many corona-infected people does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. Umm.. make that 2. I mean 4. Actually make that 10 Erm...
How many set designers does it take to change a lightbulb? Does it have to be a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
how many djs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many hanging victims does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many alzheimers patients does it take to change a lightbulb? So, you can't remember either.
Just watching last nights #GBBO & #Alexa just randomly woke up & told a weird joke... Q... how many (something like) engineers does it take to change a lightbulb.... A... 2, 1 to hold the giraffe & 1 to full the bathtub with power tools #wtfisgoingon? #noideawhatsgoingon?
Q: How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Its a trick question. Feminism will never change anything.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One... or two? #AsiManshiDebut
Also, how many 8th-graders does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . Just one. They hold the lightbulb in place, and the world revolves around them. (This will seem funnier once your kids are in middle school.)
How many dragons does it take to change a lightbulb? Answers on a postcard #writerslife #writingcommunity #dragonplanet
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
Q: “How many #DoctorWho fans does it take to change a lightbulb?” A: ”None - they just wait for it to come back on.” More than happy to have you, Jodie, Tosin & Brad as the resident TARDIS team for as long as possible!
How many economists does it take to change a lightbulb?
.@romanmars seriously has one of the most soothing voices out there, and can make absolutely anything sound interesting. Oh and this joke: “How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change.”
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Reminds me of one of my favorite lightbulb jokes. Q: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: It’s a really obscure number, you’ve probably never heard of it.
Q: How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 1 but the lightbulb's gotta really want that change
how many quarantine days does it take to change a lightbulb I’ve been putting off for weeks
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulbs got to want to change
how many muscleheads does it take to change a lightbulb......
How many psychoanalysts does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb must truly want to change.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. They are very efficient and not funny.
How many folk artists does it take to change a lightbulb? Six. One to change it and five to sing about how great the old one was. #twitterJokes
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Answer to How many President Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? by Jon Bourgetti https://quora.com/How-many-President-Trumps-does-it-take-to-change-a-lightbulb/answer/Jon-Bourgetti?ch=2&srid=zw1k…
I play guitar We have our own set of jokes Like, how many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? 101 1 to change it and 100 to say “you’re doing it wrong”
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Playing Family Edition Trivial Pursuit and i said to my 13 year old "Ask me an Adult, Entertainment question." He relpied "How many strippers does it take to change a lightbulb?" #stayhomechallenge #COVID2019 #StPatricksDay #IrelandLockdown
Tell me again...HOW many cats does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many Labour MPs does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb, the other to see if the Tories need anything else done.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many Directors of Photography does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. No. 4. No. 5.6...
How many Producers does it take to change a lightbulb? Do we really need to change it?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
how many tristans does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Directors does it take to change a lightbulb? What do you think?
Q: How many two-party political supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: They're not changing it. They think it works.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many NRA members with AR 15 s does it take to change a lightbulb? They can’t. They need more guns.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all use gas lighting.
How many sternly worded letters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because sternly worded letters are as useless as @SenSusanCollins
How many Vietnam Vets does it take to change a lightbulb? YOU WEREN'T THERE MAN.
Remember, how many academics does it take to change a lightbulb? Change?!
My favourite is always: how many members of E17 does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. Two to actually do it and two to (imagine the E17 ‘dance’ arm movements the other two did)
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it..
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Fish!
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many satisfaction survey writers does it take to change a lightbulb, and why?
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb ?
No how many does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Jewish Grandmothers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. No, none. It's fine. You go off, you have fun. My boy, he clearly has far more important things to do, while his poor frail Grandmother sits alone here in the dark, straining her tired old eyes...
How many anthropologists does it take to change a lightbulb? -I don't know either. Let's ask a waitress.
I can’t believe this is still a taking point How many crossover committees does it take to change a lightbulb
Career people including the CDC scientists had some missteps. How many does it take to change a lightbulb- 10 by Washington standards but not reality. Maybe solve the issues and learn for future rather than political opportunism
Retro 70s post #floodlightfriday when environmentally concerned children's TV presenters put their lives into their own hands. How many Blue Peter legends does it take to change a lightbulb ? #QPR #BluePeter
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many panic buyers does it take to change a lightbulb? We actually don't know because they spent all their money on toilet roll. #panicbuying #ToiletPaperPanic #lockusdown #toilethumour
@PatAlternative How many Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? Why bother asking them to. They never see the light.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, Donald Trump says that it's fixed and they sit in the dark applauding him.
Surrealist joke: Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: A fish, because a bike has no windows.
How many Vegan meat-eaters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they would rather stay in the dark about things.
How many Britons does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Growing herd immunity to darkness.
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One or two? One or two? One? Or two?
- how many freelancers does it take to change a lightbulb? - so people who have day jobs but are now quarantining might not know this, but sometimes a light goes out and you’ll have to change it! But don’t worry I am HERE FOR YOU. Let’s go! (1/67)
how many patholic mcs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
A good day for an old joke: Q: How many Grammarian Supremacists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Too.
how many mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump tells them its not broken and they sit in the the dark and nod their heads.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to really want to change
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? One. She holds on and the world revolves around her.
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many in China does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. But the lightbulb accuses him of troublemaking.
How many faculty does it take to change a lightbulb? One. They hold the lightbulb and the whole world revolves around them.
whoever thought of those dumb “how many people does it take to change a lightbulb” jokes has obviously never been in a pitch black bathroom with an ancient light fixture, because the answer definitely isn’t just 1.
“So- how many eldians does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to climb the ladder, one to shake it and one to sue the ladder company.
"How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb?" Answer: "None. They just sit in the dark until the private sector gets around to finding a way to make a profit on it."
Q: How many private insurers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Your request to change the lightbulb was denied. Although the lightbulb is not working, you did not provide justification for why you need electric light. Here is a generic candle. Matches are $372 each.
How many T*RFs does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question, they prefer gaslighting
#WhereAreTheTests...hearing now how private sector will be picking up slack on testing. So... "How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb." Answer: "None. They sit in the dark and wait for the private sector to do it."
How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too. d;¬{D #TomsDailyQuips
Joke: How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: None. They just sit in the dark & wait for the private sector to do it.
How many Singaporeans does it take to change a lightbulb? 4 - to calm public nerves.
Q. How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. A fish.
This whole virus thing and all the experts reminds me of the irish joke "how many irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? 11. 1 to hold the bulb and 10 to move the ladder in the right direction". Only now it is experts running arpund in opposite directions with opinions.
How many ska musicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Four: one to drop the bulb, and three to pickitup pickitup pickitup
How many librarians does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know either, but I’m happy to look it up for you!
How many bassists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, the keyboardist can do it with his left hand.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
But the real question is, how many F1 officials does it take to change a lightbulb?
Test all ya want for stupidity. Remember the age ol' joke; how many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None they all sit in the dark cuz #TrumpetinChief says he fixed it. It was a beautiful job.
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They wouldn't do it. It's a hardware problem.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Ques: How many Saffron Modias does it take to change a lightbulb? ANS: None. They only use Gaslight. #TiharJehad
How many union leaders does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They pay off politicians to pass a bill that deems the lightbulb changed. Then they praise the bill for ensuring everyone has light. #RepealAB5
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Dunno, but the lightbulb will be beautiful!
Cos im gonna cut myself. Seriously how many emo kida does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just sit in the dark and cry
How many windexs does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many divorced guys does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never ever get the family home anyway.
How many latinas does it take to change a lightbulb
How many monkeys does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many #cameracrew does it take to change a lightbulb? @polemicaudio #chrissyner #soundrecordist #linklinecrew shoots for #hamlettfilms #setlife #crewlife
How many of them does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Biebers does it take to change a lightbulb?? inTENtions HAHAHAHAHAHA L O L LMAO
Pinched this from Facebook: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Trump just tells them it’s fixed and they all sit around in the dark clapping.
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb? Swan! DIY maskedsingerfox costume: hot glue, tights with a head hole and the feet cut off, orange balloon, toilet paper tube, ball pit ball painted glittery… https://instagram.com/p/B9lIBCgHU2i/?igshid=q043ih9ndh7v…
how many violists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they can't get up that high
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
@DocAtCDI How many Trump voters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Electricity is a Hoax!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . One, but the lightbulb has to really want to change
How many Californian Firemen does it take to change a lightbulb? ......
How many Bernie supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? Exactly one coalition
How many Bernie supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? We're not going to change the lightbulb. First, we'll make a small incision into its chest running tiny filaments into it, connecting it into a portable ECG. Then we'll hide it's medical records & deny it is broken
How many Bernie supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? If we all get free college then everyone can learn to change a lightbulb!
How many Bernie supporters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Bernie supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? The only thing in the entire universe that can fix that lightbulb is Medicare For All!
How many Coronavirus does it take to change a lightbulb?... It doesn't matter they are all out buying toilet paper.
How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? #dogs #pets #jokes
This reminds me of that joke: "How many conservatives does it take to change a lightbulb." Answer: "None. They all just sit in the dark until the private sector gets around to doing it cost-effectively."
How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Bernie supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? We don't want to fix the lightbulb. We want to destroy the lightbulb!
How many Bernie supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb will never change! REVOLUTION!
How many Bernie supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? The exact same number there were in 2016.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
how many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb ..
How many Slayers does it take to change a lightbulb? One, because she alone stands against the forces of darkness.
How many UX designers does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends...
As the House of Commons Work and Pensions Committee launches a consultation into aspects of #UniversalCredit @BENEFITS_NEWS points out these enquiries are becoming the contemporary and serious version of 'How many......does it take to change a lightbulb?'
How many Indonesians does it take to change a lightbulb? Dunno. Didn't check.
Q: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Just the one. But he has to do it before the old one becomes cool.
How many millennials does it take to change a lightbulb? None! They just bitch and whine about how much higher ceilings are now compared to when their parent changed light bulbs and sit in the dark out of laziness and pretend it’s a new edgy trend.
how many influencees does it take to change a lightbulb? none. the lightbulb changes them. #joke
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
How many friend-zoned guys does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just compliment it and get pissed off when it won't screw. #jokes #whysoserious #BigDataConda
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb really has to want to change. #therapy #mentalhealth #mentalillness
How many Cojacks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Republicans: “more tax cuts for the rich!”
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many robots does it take to change a lightbulb? It takes one, all the sentient elitism is uncalled for #RobotLivesMatter #AI #Robotics #automation #innovation
How many Tweeple does it take to change a lightbulb? -1 to change a it & tweet it -4 to share similar experiences of changing it -6 to share how could have been changed differently. -7 to caution about the dangers of changing light bulbs. -7 more to condemn above 7 as stupid.
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump just says it's fixed, and they all sit in the dark and applaud.
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
how many #atheists does it take to change a lightbulb?
...and how many #brexiteer s does it take to change a lightbulb? None : they refuse to acknowledge it’s not already in. #brexit #RejoinEU
My buddy Tim: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Me: (groan) I don’t know. Tim: It’s an obscure number. You’ve probably never heard of it. Me: Ha ha. Me 5 minutes later to random person: How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Kingsnakes does it take to change a lightbulb? Or at least take one out. At least One. I’ll update if he can put it back in! https://instagram.com/p/B9fgFj_gQuX/?igshid=1b9ff1wgp7rgn…
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
"Hang on! Changing a lightbulb... that sounds like a hardware problem" - (How many software developers does it take to change a lightbulb?)
How many Surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
yuju: how many eunhas does it take to change a lightbulb? jungkook, totally serious: just one. the real question is, how many ladders does she need? eunha: [smol angry noises]
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb...
How many Shinner’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Irish Daily Star: It’s all unclear at the moment. However, we do know that the lightbulb was known to Gardai and the outage is being treated as suspicious.
How many Shinner’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Irish Times: In our 12 part investigative series we expose how a Sinn Féin volunteer went outside Party protocol by not seeking permission from the shadowy figures committee and just changed the lightbulb herself.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadjokes
how many marshalls does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many anarchists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Anarchists can’t change anything.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends if the lightbulb *wants* to change.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
"How many of us vegans does it take to change a lightbulb?" "I don't know but where do you get your protein?"
Been listening to a lot of 90’s ska lately. Which reminds me of my favorite joke: How many 3rd wave ska musicians does it take to change a lightbulb? Seven. Five for the horn section, one to drop the lightbulb, and one to stand around and yell “pick it up pick it up pick it up!”
How many CoronaViruses does it take to change a lightbulb?Who gives a shit.Go on a cruise and suck trumps dick,he says it tastes beautiful.#SaturdayMorning
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadjokes
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many kids with ADHD does it take to change a lightbulb? Hey, want to ride bikes?!
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Blunt joke: How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: We're not going to change it, we think it works.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many alcoholics does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the lightbulb in place and one to drink until the room spins.
how many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb????????? one but the lightbulb really has to want to change
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Denver Nuggets fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Lava lamps don't burn out
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. For more jokes:
@PatUnleashed How many millenniums does it take to change a lightbulb? Well at least 2 apparently, More than likely none because they're waiting for someone else to do it for them
Here's a good one, you might've heard it before: How many app developers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Grenta Thunderbirds does it take to change a lightbulb? None.......... our generation stole them
Trades-men&woman will rule the world! Question, how many millennials does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, ask Siri
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
how many agilests does it take to change a lightbulb? #AgileScotland
How many fal'cies does it take to change a lightbulb, Meg.
@IMissRWReagan How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Jack Daniels' does it take to change a lightbulb? #humor #joke #funny #JackDaniels #HowManyYouGot
How many grammar police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too
How many rudeboys does it take to change a lightbulb?
@TSN1260 how many bad owners does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE; the lightbulb’s are happy to replace themselves.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb. Apparently 9, 1 to change the bulb and 8 to watch. https://instagram.com/p/B9XEuXtjog7/?igshid=pq2wqj1xejjr…
Q. How many grammar Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Too!
Q: how many racists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None no-one likes to be known as a racist
How many Millennials does it take to change a lightbulb? #millennials #GenZ #homeownership #DIY
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That's a hardware problem.
Q) What do you call Kennen when he’s been stunned in Lightning Rush? A) Static electricity. Q) How many bronze players does it take to change a lightbulb? A) Nobody knows, they can’t even climb the ladder.
Yang : how many neo's does it take to change a lightbulb? Weiss , totally serious: just one. the real question is, how many ladders does she need? Neo: [smol angry noises] #rwbyincorrectorcorrectqoutes
Q. How many government ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. We’re not sure if the lightbulb needs changing, but it was put in place by the previous administration so we can’t possibly keep it.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
Which warrants the question, how many Healthcare professionals does it take to change a lightbulb? #RedAlert ;-)
@realDonaldTrump how many Dems does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they're all do nothing Dems.
How Many #AdTECH People Does it Take To Change a Lightbulb? asks @KnittingMedia’s Tim Harvey. Only at AdTECH: OOH - London May 14 https://2020adtechldn.ministryofnewmedia.com Registration now open Thx 2 our sponsors @Hivestack @TheNeuronME @SplickyDSP @vistarmedia
How many SEOs does it take to change a lightbulb, light bulb, light, bulb, lamp, changing lightbulbs, bulbs, LED lights, reading light, home office... ? #keywords #SEO
Q: How many gammon does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Too
How many Bocholters (or whatever they're called) does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many chess players does it take to change a lightbulb?!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Jess’ does it take to change a lightbulb? ONE cos I’m so independent x
How many redittors does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes https://ift.tt/3cCWbLQ
How many redittors does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes https://ift.tt/3cCWbLQ
How many Indians does it take to change a lightbulb? 38% of 136 Cr + ONE.
How many married men does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Their wives get sick of asking and change it themselves.
How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, a communist, a sleepy pedo, a Native American and a short guy. Answer is 4
How many tech SEO does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but they do it in two parts because somehow they disassembled the dang lightbulb.
Joke that will piss off any feminists how many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None that's a man's job. #bot #jokes #fun
How many podcasters does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. One to change the lightbulb, and one to share it across all social media platforms five times a week and beg for listens and reviews.
... Piled up to obstruct their self defined processes. I liken many of them to Vogons.. Douglas Adams' famously inefficient, officious and ineffective officials in charge of the running of the Galaxy. Q: How many Civil Servants does it take to change a lightbulb? Cont'd..
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? One... ...Two...One...Two.
How many redittors does it take to change a lightbulb? 14 to share similar experiences of changing light bulbs and how the light bulb could have been changed differently. 7 to caution about the dangers of changing light bulbs. #jokes #reddit
Q: How many grammar Nazi’s does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Too
How many tory voters from Dec 2012 does it take to change a lightbulb? None, you'll never find any....... EDIT: By the 'Glorious 12th' you won't!
Q: How many grammar Nazi’s does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Too
How many Gammon's does it take to change a lightbulb? None,it's women's work.......
@LadyRed_6 How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb?
Tech Joke of the week: How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it’s a hardware problem. @alyhemraj #programmers #Joke #hardware #C4CreativeGroup
How many Daleks does it take to change a lightbulb?
Question: how many California millennials does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: three… One to change the lightbulb, and two to file the environmental impact statement…
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? A lot. They keep burning their hands trying to change it before it's cool.
Time to open another gofundus account. In the meantime I'm writing jokes for Nurmi to use in his upcoming comedy special. Like how many Jodi's does it take to change a lightbulb. Or maybe this one ..... A cowboy, Donald Trump, and two Jodi supporters walk into a bar.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
lmao that's great. How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? ................That's not funny!
Beverly : How many Eddie does it take to change a lightbulb? Richie : Just one. The real question is, how many ladders does he need? Eddie : *smol angry noises*
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? Liberals don't change lightbulbs they important domestic labor
How many journal reviewers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, it just isn't novel enough.
Q: How many Bitcoiners does it take to change a lightbulb ? A: None. As rob miners of power, they must be ruthlessly minimized.
@Rocci_Stucci @ScottyRoberts #Mojo50 So, per the last show: How many assholes does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just beat the room for being black ....Alright y’all that’s my time!
How many alzheimer's patients does it take to change a lightbulb? To get to the other side.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? One. The rest of you, GET THE HELL OUT OF THERE AND WASH YOUR HANDS!!!
So Regev goes: "How many Zionists does it take to change a lightbulb? None We screw the world around the lightbulb"
How many meat-eaters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they would rather stay in the dark about things. #VeganHumour
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Grammar Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? Too
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many friend-zoned guys does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just compliment it and get pissed off when it won't screw. #jokes #jokeofthehour #whysoserious #funny #BigDataConda
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Hazards does it take to change a lightbulb? None apparently because it gets stuck everytime
If a monk in a monastery is psychic, does he have “Prior knowledge?” Are “psychics” female scientists who are pretty cool? Q. How many psychics does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. They already called the handyman yesterday.
Jokes about vampires: How many vampires does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, but I know how many vampires it takes to defeat an army of skeletons: Just one, but he must be able to somersault (very loud laugh, see for yourself on the video). #indiedev #gamedev
how many Liz Warrens does it take to change a lightbulb? trick question. she doesn’t want to change the lightbulb. she just wants to stand in the way so no one else can.
How many copyeditors does it take to change a lightbulb? None, unless house style insists on following the "preferred" spelling of a word as presented first by the dictionary entry: "light bulb." Most CEs' style sheet entry: "lightbulb (au pref)." :D
How many story editors does it take to change a lightbulb? Does it have to be a lightbulb?
How many maga does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump will just tell them it’s changed and they will just stand in the dark and cheer their dear leader.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #RandomJokesIO #dadJokes
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
RT pnh: Q. How many proofreaders does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Proofreaders aren't allowed to change anything; they can only query. Q. How many copyeditors does it take to change a lightbulb? A. The last time you asked this question, it was abo…
How many journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. But due to newsroom cuts, there’s only enough money in the budget for one journalist for the job. Oh, and that journalist also has to take the photos because the photog staff was just cut.
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
When you cant beat them... shut them down... MAGA~ Hey Bernie... how many socialist does it take to change a lightbulb? Doesn't matter, no electricity... oh and give me your money for #taxes
how many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? well it’s not 50, my basement’s still dark
Question: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer:
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't know... but the anthology Living in the Dark will be out next month. (PS: earlier version of this joke deleted due to typo!)
How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? One, they dont like to share the limelight
How many publishers does it take to change a lightbulb? We’ve seen this kind of plot before....
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but a mentor has to issue the call to adventure first.
I always liked, "How many copyeditors does it take to change a lightbulb?" "One, but the author usually changes it back."
Q. How many proofreaders does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Proofreaders aren't allowed to change anything; they can only query. Q. How many copyeditors does it take to change a lightbulb? A. The last time you asked this question, it was about proofreaders. Fix?
How many copy editors does it take to change a lightbulb? It this correct? The last time it was about writers.
Q: How many art directors does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Does it have to be a lightbulb?
BTW, how many pre-millennial #feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Eleven. One to do it and ten to film an empowering documentary about it.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many #clojure hackers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The lightbulb is immutable anyway.
How many #Brexitards does it take to change a lightbulb? One to convince the others that the working LED bulb they have is broken and 17.4million to tell everyone else how great the new candle is going
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Malaysian PMs' does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Something tells me that's the wrong question.
How many quantum mechanics does it take to change a lightbulb? There is no lightbulb!!!
[Prinz Eugen, Laffey, Avrora] How many drunks does it take to change a lightbulb? #AzurLane http://redd.it/fb8qij
I STOLE THIS....BUT I MADE THIS UP. HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I HAVE NO IDEA EITHER. BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT... IN THE WHITE HOUSE!
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
Q: How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 20. 1 to hold the ladder, 1 to screw it in and 18 to say how much better Neil Peart would have done it.
how many #developers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many Labour in Scotland MPs does it take to change a lightbulb? A. All of them. *Nicked from a fellow Twitter pal without permission.
The Lightbulb Jokes: How many elected officials does it take to change a lightbulb?
I’m reminded of that classic joke - How many developers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Its a hardware problem.
Q: How many overreacting social media surfers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Never mind, they’d rather be in the dark.
How many overreacting social media surfers does it take to change a lightbulb? Never mind, they'd rather be in the dark.
How many deplorables does it take to change a lightbulb none trump tells them it isn’t broken and they all just sit in the dark
Skeppy: How many kids does it take to change a lightbulb Bbh: How many? Skeppy: Obviously not 10 because my basement is still dark
The press officer's eternal lament: we have no plans but they are all firm. Or: how many press officers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Over the last year, the luminosity of the lightbulb has increased by 12%..... @dr_david_w @Astro_Jonny @MoorgateMermaid @simonnread
SISTER KORIANDER: Hey Sister! How many Mutants does it take to change a lightbulb? SISTER RAVEN: If I have a clear line of sight to the light fixture and a full magazine of 20 bolts? 21.
SISTER KORIANDER: Hey Sister! How many heretics does it take to change a lightbulb? SISTER RAVEN: If you've got a heretic, why do you need another light source?
How many cows does it take to change a lightbulb? ... ... ... moo-nu
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many Facebook photography group members does it take to change a lightbulb? http://dlvr.it/RQvJVC via @diyphotography
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
How many LGBT supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? The lightbulb is fine the way it is. Society just needs to change the way it looks at it.
How many swords does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to screw it in and two to three: one to cut it off and the other two to impale my eyes out
How many liberandus does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because liberandus cannot change anything...
Q. How many Politicians does it take to change a lightbulb ? A. NO IDEA !
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Better fear the Congress and the House for they squabble a lot which hinders anything getting done. It is equivalent to the saying of "how many does it take to change a lightbulb?". That lightbulb is either a bill or some act to be done by any body in the government...
How many journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one if she’s taken all her pictures and can find an upturned bin and the arm of a wheelchair to stand on. Bless Chris, there was no chance I was going to leave without sorting the light out for him. Easy peasy
Q: How many of these Twitter warriors does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . A: None...they only use gaslight! (Sorry...couldn’t resist! )
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many photographers does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one more - just one more.
How many Facebook photography group members does it take to change a lightbulb? https://diyphotography.net/how-many-facebook-photography-group-members-does-it-take-to-change-a-lightbulb/…
"How many Bloomberg supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but here is $80 million." @petridishes, the only good WashPo writer
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb ? None...trump says its fine and they all sit in the dark and agree with him.
How many Facebook photography group members does it take to change a lightbulb? https://diyphotography.net/how-many-facebook-photography-group-members-does-it-take-to-change-a-lightbulb/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter… @PhotoPro_Napa
How many Facebook photography group members does it take to change a lightbulb? - https://diyphotography.net/how-many-facebook-photography-group-members-does-it-take-to-change-a-lightbulb/…
How many Bloomberg supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but here is $80 million.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many Twitter users does it take to change a lightbulb ?
I do so love @petridishes. ‘How many Bloomberg supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but here is $80 million.’ She’s got a billion of ‘em.
How many Bloomberg supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but here is $80 million. @petridishes
How many #Brexitards does it take to change a lightbulb? One to convince the others that the working LED bulb they have is broken and 17.4million to tell everyone else how great the new candle is going to be once they decide which shape and size it is
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #RandomJokesIO #dadJoke
how many revolutionaries does it take to change a lightbulb? THAT'S NOT FUNNY
How many suicide victims/dead Haitian orphans does it take to change a lightbulb? —More than 34, apparently, since it's still dark in Hillary's basement. I'm here all week, try the bleach. #QAnonStandUpComedyHour
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They all use gaslighting.
How many Mayor Petes does it take to change a lightbulb? -If we can change a light bulb then, I hope, we can change our neighbors. And if we can change our neighbors, we can change a country. And I don’t know about you, but I still have a lot of hope and change left in me!
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Bloomberg supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, but here is $80 million.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb*
@juliemason Country Music: You know what happens when you play a country song backwards? Your wife returns, your dog comes back to life... And: How many country singers does it take to change a lightbulb? 10 - 1 to do the work and 9 to sing about how they miss the old one!
How many victims does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Chuck. How many people & how much money does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: As many & as much as a "manager" decides. We don't want "cheap" or "overpiced". We prefer "cost effective". Being you're just another entrenched DC Swamp creature, sure you don't understand.
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They wouldn't do it. It's a hardware problem.
How many seasons does it take to change a lightbulb?
Sorry, I read that as how many Nietzsche does it take to change a lightbulb? Which is existential and I didn’t make him plural because that would only add to the conundrum
How many #Brexitards does it take to change a lightbulb? One to convince the others that the working LED bulb they have is broken and 17.4million to tell everyone else how great the new candle is going to be once they decide which shape and size it is
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb none trump says it isn’t broken and they all just sit in the dark
How many SEOs does it take to change a lightbulb, light bulb, light, bulb, lamp, lighting? #SEMrushChat #SEO #BadSEOJokes
No worries your president says the spring will stop the coronavirus, say that reminds me how many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb, none Trump will lie that he changed it and all the republicans will sit in the dark and agree it was changed.
how many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? 3. One to write a draft. One to make arguments. And, one who doesn't do anything but you are still charged for his time.
How many Phil Doggz does it take to change a lightbulb? https://youtu.be/sYR-PBtBzmg via @YouTube
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None The butler changes the lightbulb
Do we need more than 6 people with different plans for America? How many democratic candidates does it take to change a lightbulb? #DemDebate
Q. How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. One, but the lightbulb has to really want to change. Q. How many Narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None, because they are still using Gaslighting!
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many psychologist does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb should be really willing to change from within.
How many devs does it take to change a lightbulb? 11. 1 to find the optimal bulb, 1 to find the optimal chair to stand on, and 1 to invariably find a bug.
"- How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? - Just one, but only if the lightbulb really wants to change."
How many sexist, xenophobic and racist twats does it take to change a lightbulb?
@va_cc11 here’s my bad joke for you: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one - but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
All I can tell you is that I’ve been there - it’s exhausting and sad and frustrating. But you won’t ever regret it. And - how many GOP does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they’ll just sit in the dark and insist they can see just fine...
I'm not sure this is a definitive answer to how many men does it take to change a lightbulb. But, it is simply genius. https://twitter.com/changed_gear/status/1231913598768775168…
Q: How many introverts does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Why does it have to be a GROUP ACTIVITY? My best to you and your dad.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb. 0 Republicans are afraid of change
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? One, depending on the circumstances. How many women does it take to get a predatory rapist legally confirmed as a predatory rapist? Hundreds, according to the US Justice System. This is a start, but only that: just the start.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb? This one of the things I love about Twitter! https://twitter.com/changed_gear/status/1231913598768775168…
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb ? The answer is now none.
How many drone operators does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just announces that it’s fixed, and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
That's what I call...thinking outside the box!! Inspirational!! So, how many electricians does it take to change a lightbulb...NONE!!!
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb ? Doesn't matter , they cant change anything .
How many #Brexiteers does it take to change a #lightbulb? Only two (2): One to promise a bright future and another one to screw it up. https://upjoke.com/brexit-jokes
There’s a joke that I heard ..... “how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb ??? Only 1. But the lightbulb has to want to be changed.” Witty won’t even acknowledge that she’s not well.
Me: “How many phony centrist politicians does it take to change a lightbulb?” Phony centrist politicians:
X How many members of the Freud family does it take to change a lightbulb? Sex. :)
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many dyslectics does it take to change a lightbulb ? Steven.
CNN @realDonaldTrump How many DEM Nevada Caucus Counters does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer 13
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They prefer the dark. #TrumpIsARussianAsset Translated for #MoscowMitch Сколько республиканцев нужно, чтобы поменять лампочку? никто. Они предпочитают темноту.
How many QAs does it take to change a lightbulb? They noticed that the room was dark. They don't fix problems, they find them.
How many Georgetown SSP alumni does it take to change a lightbulb/write a PDB
The punchline to my favorite 'lightbulb' joke (how many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?)
How many existentialists does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer. Doesn’t matter a true existentialist provides their own enlightenment
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 One to change the bulb and one to hold the penis....chair...I mean chair.
“Master, I’ve another question” *rolls eyes* “Go on padawan” “How many Republic Senators does it take to change a lightbulb?” [*groans*] “No idea, Obi-Wan” “It’s all of them Master” “What?” “Well, it’s one to promise a brighter future and the rest to screw it up!” *grins*
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just make darkness a standard.
HOW MANY MILLENNIALS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? ANSWER: NONE! THEY ALL RUSH TO TELL IT IT'S BEAUTIFUL JUST THE WAY IT IS
How many Rand al'Thors does it take to change a lightbulb and will they all go mad before it is done?
How many McKinsey consultants does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they only make PowerPoints about changing lightbulbs (and pithy tweets about everything else)
dude really just said ‘how many gays does it take to change a lightbulb?’ lmaoo
Q: How many corona viruses does it take to change a lightbulb? A: (cough)
How many rats does it take to change a lightbulb
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
Catch of the day. Alaskan Pollock. How many Alaskan pollocks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: One to hold the giraffe, the other to fill the bathtub with brightly-colored bicycles.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb in Bangkok?
Me: All right all right. How we doing tonight? How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Attending: Me: None. Change must come from within. Attending: When I asked you to present on rounds this is not what I meant
You forgot to say how many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. That is a hardware problem.
How many #blender artists does it take to change a #lightbulb? 2, if you count one from tutorial: - save - unscrew - save - screw - save - realize you're using #Blendereevee so the first bulb was fine - tick some hidden checkbox after watching another tutorial
How many photographers does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. 1 to do it and 99 to say “I could have done that”
But how many omnivores does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many DP’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Does it have to be a lightbulb? I think we should do it with candles and just available light...
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
@SebGorka How many communists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many tweeting EUC engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many members of 5ive does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many chairs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light. #gotjokes
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
“How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb?” - Also (Twitter-less) Lee
How many friend-zoned guys does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just compliment it and get pissed off when it won't screw. #jokes #jokeofthehour #whysoserious #funny #SriLankanBuzz #lka #SriLanka
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. We're efficient and have no sense of humour.
No how many hands of yours does it take to change a lightbulb?????
How many barbarians does it take to change a lightbulb? One, plus a cleric casting guidance. #dnd5e #dndmemes
"How many stag do guests does it take to change a lightbulb?" "We'll never know"
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? How many houses do you need to own to advocate for socialism and "income equality?"
"How many Spectrum fans does it take to change a lightbulb?"
How many patient safety experts does it take to change a lightbulb (ie to see what's happening & actually fix it rather than merely earn money by complaining & blaming?) https://patientsafetycongress.co.uk/2020-programme @HealthWatchUK
How many @HisHolyLord s does it take to change a lightbulb? None. He gets His mum to do it...
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
#IR35 is a joke, here’s another... How many finance IT contractors does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: It doesn’t need changing, it just got switched off when the last one left.
How many Knowledge Management Strategy draft papers does it take to change a lightbulb? #KnowledgeManagement
“Master, how many Sith Lords does it take to change a lightbulb?” “Two, Obi-Wan, a Master & his apprentice!” “You are wise. But your answer troubles me so.” “Why, my Padawan learner?” “Because Master Yoda said: “None it is, they prefer it on the dark side.” *grins* #starwars
About 25 years ago, I got fed up of load of vile blonde joke on a football forum. Responded with a mild "How many chauvinist does it take to change a lightbulb, 1 but his mum's got to hold the ladder" Cue blizzard of filthy abuse and righteous outrage' worthy of Sam L Jackson.
how many waddle dees does it take to change a lightbulb?
@worldofraina ,@theAliceRoberts ,@MissJuliaStiles ,@JuliaBradbury @AvrilLavigne . How many Manxmen does it take to change a lightbulb? ....Ohh Arrr.. we Don’t do change ere !
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Q: How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
One giant clusterfuck. Whadda joke! How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? SERIOUSLY I WANT TO KNOW!
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One. It really has to want to change.
Joke: How many Swedish men does it take to change a lightbulb? There are no Swedish men, sit in the dark. Arabs are the new Swedish man. Get used to it ladies. Get used to getting your ass kicked every day till you die a broken human being because Swedish men are too scared.
Joke: How many Nationals does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: Change?
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? 30. 1 to screw it in, 29 to say that #NeilPeart could do it better #Rush
How many trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? 16,000 lies! Why did trump cross the road? To cheat on your mother! ivanka, eric and jr. Walked into a bar? Bartender got his job because his daddy owned the bar! What’s black and white and read all over? REAL NEWS!
How many Englishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently millions and they all suck.
@petererskine Q: How many producers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Does it have to be a lightbulb?
This reminds me of the joke "How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb has to WANT to be CHANGED". Trudeau has zero interest in ending these blockades. They fit perfectly into his ideology driven permanent electioneering SJW drivel
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Two. One to hold the giraffe, and the other to fill the bathtub with brightly-colored machine tools. I think that's the best joke ever. Heard it decades ago.
How many grammar nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
How many dead prostitutes does it take to change a lightbulb? More than 5, because my cellar is still dark.
How many emergency service personnel does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many friend-zoned guys does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just compliment it and get pissed off when it won't screw. #jokes #jokeofthehour #whysoserious #funny #SriLankanBuzz #lka #SriLanka
Ok here we go "How many social workers does it take to change a lightbulb" ? A) "The lightbulb must first fill out all the appropriate forms to determine eligibility for services (Break free from those forms)
How many paedophile defenders does it take to change a lightbulb in @LiberalAus . @ScottMorrisonMP says 1, DIY for BFF Brian. Bolt has to piggy back Henderson 2. Abbott and Howard bought British lightbulbs that don’t fit. But they all defend paedophiles. #stkevinscollege #auspol
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that's a hardware problem.
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? one, the lightbulb just has to “really wanna change”
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Discussion: How many MNL48 members does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't forget to use #MNL48HighTensionMV in your replies! No emojis or pictures too.
How many #freeskiers does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to change the lightbulb & 99 others to say ... “I could do that!”
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! #pun / #dadjoke
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? 5. 1 to change it, 1 to hold the ladder, and 3 others to share their experiences.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s a really obscure number, actually. You’ve probably never heard of it.
How many Parallax staff members does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: More than 7.
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Their butler does it.
Jongho: how many Hongjoong’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Yunho: just one. The real question is, how many ladders does he need? Hongjoong: *offended noises*
Q: How many chess grandmasters does it take to change a lightbulb ?A: 21. One to have the idea, and a #jokes http://bit.ly/2vFD6Yh
How many New York transplants wearing black pants and white sneakers does it take to change a lightbulb
How many programmers does it take to change a lightbulb?
If we were more clever, we'd come up with a 'How many ...does it take to change a lightbulb' joke!
#Gif #fun https://ift.tt/39N75ft How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many #DoctorWho fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Change it?! CHANGE IT?!? IT WAS FINE UNTIL JN-T GOT HIS HANDS ON IT!
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
"How many Shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb?" "1. But it has to really want to change." Thank you #TheOutsiderHBO
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But the lightbulb really has to wanna change. #TheOutsider
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJokes #randomJokes
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the light bulb really has to want to change.
A1 #TweetRN It definitively can. But, it's like the old "how many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb, only 1, but it has to REALLY WANT to change". You can't download critical thinking. One must be open to the work it requires if it isn't an innate ability.
How many Aussies does it take to change a lightbulb. One, but you’ve got to do it from down under. #Australia #aussiewildfires #aussie #lol #humor #comedy #joke #fun #smile
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many does it take to change a lightbulb! LOL
... In a pub in the leafy shires with a bunch of Man Utd fans watching the game .... Reminds me of the joke .... Q: How many Man Utd fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Two ... One to change the bulb and one to drive him up from Surrey ....
"How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but that lightbulb really has to wanna change" #TheOutsider
How many Aspecs21’s does it take to change a lightbulb? 2. One to change it and one to give me lift because I’m 5’2” and I don’t own a step ladder. But at least the light bulbs are free.
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish.
How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb. None. They just find light in the darkness.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
“How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb?” used to be a joke, but trust Nigeria to always blur the lines between parody and reality.
How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb really has to want to change. #theoutsider
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb Gladders? None get the humans to do it
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many haters does it take to change a lightbulb? The is ...... NONE! They fear change, even if we can make the world a brighter place. Now write that shit down, it MIGHT save your life someday! #MegaMcFly
How many DMs does it take to change a lightbulb? 3. One to actually change the lightbulb, and one to confuse the players.
"How many shrinks does it take to change a lightbulb?" Hahaha @TheOutsiderHBO
How many cockroaches does it take to change a lightbulb? Nobody knows because as soon as you switch the light on, they all scarper! #Jokes #KidsJokes #DadJokes #MomJokes
,,, in other news, how many libras does it take to change a lightbulb and why did it take us so long
Q. How many Trump Cabinet members does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. Their work is best handled when the public is in the dark!
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
Yeah I can understand all that... A lot more issues than just porn. How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many friend-zoned guys does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'll just compliment it and get pissed off when it won't screw. #joke #whysoserious #funny #SriLankanBuzz
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
so now the joke is 'how many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?':
#askAtwood how many Handmaids does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Telephone box
Now we know the answer to the old question "How many geeks does it take to change a lightbulb?". The answer is none (provided they have a drone)!
Meant for @realdonaldtrump @marcorubio @LindseyGrahamSC @senatemajldr @SenTedCruz How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? None... they use gaslighting.
Q. How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Three. One to call Maintenance. The other two to watch, wide-eyed & amazed that their sibling is so clever.
How many drones does it take to change a lightbulb? Jokes of 2020
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many beer bloggers does it take to change a lightbulb Beer Bloggers Conference Leeds 2012
Humour? Yes, odd coming from me. I don’t do comedy programming but I can appreciate a joke. “How many dead people does it take to change a lightbulb?” “I dunno, there’s five of them in my basement and the light’s still not on.”
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many policemen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Finally an answer to the age old question, how many drones does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? 3 when @TrainingToTeach organises the electrician.
How many nerds does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to change the bulb then two to argue endlessly about how good the old one was.
How many Drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many comedians does it take to change a lightbulb?87. One to change the lightbulb, and the other 86 to slag off Donald Trump. :- Dominic Frisby
Just ruined the how many men does It take to change a lightbulb, still the tories won't mind they can then justify charging 65 pounds to change a bulb, they had to hire a drone operator with a full caa licence
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? You need a project manager, a senior developer, a light engineer, an aerospace engineer, an electrical engineer, a Sufi engineer (for nuur) and etc.
Q- how many drones does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? Well it's not 6, my basement is still dark. #triviaweekend
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many GTD’ers does it take to change a lightbulb? Hahaha!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #RandomJokesIO #dadJoke
The first meeting of @BorisJohnson #Cabinet sounded like a lesson with a teacher drilling his students. I know they're relatively young but Better question #Bojo How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they like to keep us in the dark
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many Met Opera fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they all clutch their pearls as soon as they hear the word 'change.'
How many City fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They’d rather sit in the dark and blame Liverpool
How many Shinners does it take to change a lightbulb? 80. "Just now we can't reach it - the meanies we want to cast into darkness won't give us a boost."
How many Shinners does it take to change a lightbulb?
Just saw a James bond fan say on the BBC. "How many bond fans does it take to change a lightbulb? One but ten to say the original was better"
How many Ipswich fans does it take to change a lightbulb?? Answer - They don’t, they just sit around and talk about how good the old one was
How many @williuums does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Californians does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten - one to change the lightbulb and nine to share the experience.
Lightbulb jokes started with an Irish joke (UK equivalent of Polish jokes) on Anne Nightingale's show on BBC Radio 1:- How many Irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten - one to hold the lightbulb and nine to turn the room round. Listeners took up the lightbulb angle
How many naked men does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: one to change the lightbulb and one to hand it up to him because he's got nowhere to put it while he's climbing the ladder.
How many #Baptists does it take to change a lightbulb? Change?!??! An oldie but a goodie.
How many Lisa Nandys does it take to change a lightbulb? None because we don’t deserve light and there’s no point in claiming the lightbulb can be changed.
#WhenImDrawingABlank I tend to tweet nonsense...If you're riding down the side of a mountain on your dinosaur and the transmission falls out, how many alligators does it take to change a lightbulb? Purple, because aliens dont wear hats, duh
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. They use gaslighting.
Q: How many life planners does it take to change a lightbulb? A: But what does the lightbulb want to achieve in life? What is it's purpose? Is it happy in its current role as a giver of light? How will it spend its time if it isn't being a light bulb?
How many guinea pigs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . Change?
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? What exactly is the Internet of Things #IoT? A @wired guide: https://buff.ly/2OIlsK0 #tech #IoTsystem #Internet
Q: How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Who cares? They never get the house anyway. #jokeoftheday
How many Tory Prime Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. It resigns after an argument with your unelected mate.
How many Guardian readers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They form a support group called Coping with darkness/ set up a charity called The Campaign against Darkness
- How many trumpet players does it take to change a lightbulb? - Five. One to handle the bulb and four to tell him how much better they could have done it.
Q: How many life planners does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Only one, but the lightbulb has really got to want to change
How many Boris Johnson’s does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to smash it and one to tell you he’s got lightbulb changing done.
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? Usually only one, hopefully it’s an LED bulb which are 80% more efficient than traditional lighting such as fluorescent and incandescent lights. 95% of the energy in LEDs is converted into light and only 5% is wasted as heat.
how many types of people are there? gosh haha i could never guess how many types of people there are,,..guys how many types of people does it take to change a lightbulb. how m
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many people does it take to change a lightbulb? Singapore version.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud.
How many of him does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
@MarcRyanOnAir @ESPNUpstate @LONZOONWORD How many USC football fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None- they just sit around and talk about how good the old one was..(5 years of glory)
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? Not six... Because my basement is still dark.
How many greens does it take to change a lightbulb Countless. He is many. He is legion.
How many Greens does it take to change a lightbulb None bc they'd need to climb onto a chair or step stool to do it and then look up and they hate any heights that make him feel unstable like wow fuck even tryna hang the Pride pinata was a nightmare no thanks darkness forever
How many Greens does it take to change a lightbulb Only one, but first they need to spend 18 years trying to figure out if the lightbulb actually REALLY needs changing, bc like maybe they just WANT to change it even tho it doesn't need to be changed bc they're faking it
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many Unionist Politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Coming up on @BBCScotlandNews, Devastation as room plunged into darkness. Sturgeon must answer.
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They wouldn't do it. It's a hardware problem.
How many RCMP officers does it take to change a lightbulb? I'm sorry that answer is still classified despite several FOIA requests.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadjokes
How many story points does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! Trump tells them it's fixed and they sit in the dark and applaud him!
that my joke: 'How many psychoanalysts does it take to change a lightbulb? Just the one, but the lightbulb must really want to change'; joke, was a sign of a childhood full of rubbish jokes. #MyTherapistConcluded
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many UK infrastructure project approval assessment and/or consultation stages does it take to change a lightbulb? Always one more.
How many Scottish Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they prefer to sit in the dark and blame the SNP.
How many architects does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one to hold it, because the entire world revolves around you!
more Jewish lightbulb jokes: how many Israeli Chief Rabbinates does it take to change a lightbulb? two. one to change the lightbulb and one to rule the lightbulb's conversion invalid
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many dead prostitutes does it take to change a lightbulb? Well... more than 7 cuz my basement still dark.
Or does it even have to be a bridge? How many Design Thinkers does it take to change a lightbulb? https://stoppress.co.nz/news/how-many-designers-does-it-take-change-lightbulb-special-groups-heath-lowe-why-design-thinking-should-inform-everything/amp/… #designthinking #dtk12chat
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? They won’t because… How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? They won’t because Trump will say it’s fixed and his cult will sit in the dark and... - https://instagram.com/p/B8YyYNgFNII/
How many SNP MSPs does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many humans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They'd rather stay in the dark about things."
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many Italian does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many mother superiors does it take to change a lightbulb? Nun. #BadJokeDay #NotEvenSorry
Q: How many #engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Depends on whether or not that lightbulb is connected to #WiFi! A guide to everything #IoT. @WIRED
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven! #FridayFun #UKPunDay
How many Spaniards does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan. #UKPunDay
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
The WIRED Guide to the Internet of Things https://ift.tt/2UDsCD5 February 10, 2020 at 03:51PM How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? Depends on whether or not that lightbulb is connected to Wi-Fi.
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? What, exactly, is the Internet of Things #IoT? A @wired guide: https://wired.com/story/wired-guide-internet-of-things/?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=onsite-share&utm_brand=wired&utm_social-type=earned… @wired
How many people at Eskom does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 but has to be a German.
How many hermit crabs does it take to change a lightbulb? About 20, all with different sized bulbs. They then line up and swap them so each has the right bulb for their lamp.
How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? They blame shoddy workmanship, and sit in the dark waiting for market forces to change.
How many Spontoonies does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 She brings her own ladder and always asks the lightbulb if it wants to be changed.
How many Trumps does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten. One (Tiffany) to put in the new bulb and nine to form a mob family to charge taxpayers for the labour while stealing every last lightbulb from the Capitol Building.
How many democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Someone tells them it is gender fluid lightbulb and no one dares to touch it.
I’m watching dr.phil and this nigga told dr.phil “how many dr.phil producers does it take to change a lightbulb” and this man Phil’s face man
I just had Alexa telling is jokes. How many nannies does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because Trump does it as he knows how to get things done.
How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? Who cares? They never get the house anyway.
Lol. That's funny. How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? 1/240th of them.
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb. No one knows as when the lights come on, they scatter.
How many Jenny's does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Fintech entrepreneurs does it take to change a lightbulb? @BrettKing This week's newsletter features: @_GoodBox @SwitchMyBankAcc @monzo @tryflux @WeArePayUK @StarlingBank @ThePSR Read, share, subscribe and feedback: https://mailchi.mp/1ec28b995257/navigating-payments-giving-payments-a-voice-signposting-solutions-6330891…
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
“How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb?” "Replace a lightbulb.” *screams*
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb really has to want to change.
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE. GRAHAM LINEHAN will change your bulbs. But only women who definitely were 100% born with vaginas! That lightbulb is the old patriarchy and Graham will change it, all for the women (born with vaginas).
Joke. How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb. We don't know. It's been in committee so long they forgot what they were debating. Will have to wait even longer since now are delaying until the next elections. Hopefully we will know by 2024.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! Trump tells them it's fixed and they sit in the dark and applaud him!
How many demonRats does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they hire the Chinese to do it.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: how many Man Utd supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: three: one to change the bulb; one to buy the commemorative bulb-changing third away strip; one to drive them all back to London/East Anglia/Yorkshire/Aberdeen, etc.
How many Republican Senators does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says it's fixed so they sit in the dark and applaud.
How many huns does it take to change a lightbulb ? It doesnt matter they are all condemned to eternal darkness.
I spent 5 minutes wondering if this was “how many presidential candidates does it take to change a lightbulb” joke tbh. But no it’s a great question in general
How many T rumps does it take to change a lightbulb? We’ll never know because none of them can do any manual labor.
My daughter told me this joke: How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? NONE! Trump tells them it's fixed and they sit in the dark and applaud him!
How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? Who cares? They never get the house anyway.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
One more I saw somewhere (and apologies to grad. students out there): “How many grad. students does it take to change a lightbulb?” “One, but it takes her/him eight years.”
My nephew just posted a funny meme/joke on FB *ahem*. "How many #Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump says "I fixed it" & the rest just sit in the dark & applaud.".
Joke of the day: How many Cato masons does it take to change a lightbulb? One max !
Q: How many Tories does it take to change a lightbulb? A: We don't do lightbulbs but if you care to leave a message with my secretary; I'll get back to you. #Snore
How many Demorcrats does it take to change a lightbulb. ( Unknown ) cause most get there and would rather sit and argue in the dark and try to Impeach the person doing all the work.
How many Wordsmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
Elly: how many yoojungs does it take to change a lightbulb? Doyeon, totally serious: just one. the real question is, how many ladders does she need? Yoojung: [smol angry noises]
Do nothing Democrat’s. I DON’T think so. How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb. None. Trump says it’s changed. The rest of the Republicans then sit down in the dark and applaud.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one! All he has to do is hold it in place while the world revolves around him..
Name me a Republican sans Mitt Romney and John McCain that has had a backbone to say no to anything Trump has commanded. Saw a meme. How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?None. Trump says it works. Republican all nod yes &say it works as they sit in the dark
I'll follow back tomorrow. Too tired tonight. Just up making jokes until I pass out. How many socialists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, it’s not 6, because my basement is still dark.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many trump republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, he just tells them it’s fixed and they all sit there in the dark, applauding...
How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb?? Well, it isn't 6 because my basement is still dark!!
How many Psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to...WANT to change
How many stablegeniuses does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. They wouldn’t even know where to start! They pay JohnQ Public minimum wage to do it & even less if he’s an immigrant! FLUSH THE TURDS NOVEMBER THIRD!
Oh, sorry, I thought I would imitate a Trumpfuck and bring Obama into it. How many Repubs does it take to change a lightbulb? None, Trump says it's fixed and they all sit in the dark and believe him.
How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, it's not six. My basement has that many and it's still dark.
@LeggJoannelegg and @maddow Q: How many @GOPrepublicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. #impeachedTrump says it isn't burnt and they all applaud!
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many developers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, that’s a hardware problem! Here is a Hands-On-Lab showcasing Low Code Dev with Oracle Autonomous Database at #OracleCloudDay #Dallas
So how many people does it take to change a lightbulb? A little extract from an animation promo for Commercial Power...next stop Pixar! #animation #power #commercialpower #voiceovers
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?? None, Impeached Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud like trained monkeys
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?? None, Impeached Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud like trained monkeys
Q. How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? A. None. . .trump says it's fixed and they all applaud in the dark!
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb ?? None, Impeached Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud like trained monkeys @GOP @SenateGOP @HouseGOP @senatemajldr @realDonaldTrump
How many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb ?? None, Impeached Trump just says it’s fixed and the rest of them sit in the dark and applaud like trained monkeys @GOP @SenateGOP @HouseGOP @senatemajldr @realDonaldTrump
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to claim that the lightbulb is violating the socket. A second to secretly wish she was the socket. And a third to get offended by the mansplaining of the guy they've bullied into actually changing the lightbulb.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Chodaks does it take to change a lightbulb?
So many aspects of engineering discipline are being reinvented by the software industry. Iterative design, modular systems, test simulators (harnesses) Q. How many software developers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Only one, but they have to reinvent the lightbulb first
Q: How many existential Philosophers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: A Fish
How many astronomers does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero, because their research assistant did it.
Q: How many Unifor members does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Eighteen. You got a problem with that?
How many .@CNNpolitics idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They're too busy fact-checking everyone else but themselves..
mitsuri: how many shinobus does it take to change a lightbulb? giyuu, totally serious: just one. the real question is, how many ladders does she need? shinobu: [smol angry noises]
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many #fintech entrepreneurs does it take to change a lightbulb? Three One to change the lightbulb, one to raise the funding to change the lightbulb, and one to write the API that makes it compatible with the legacy energy system
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many women does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. She holds it still and waits for the world to revolve around her. #bot #jokes #fun
How many teenagers does it take to change a lightbulb?... One. They just hold up the bulb and the world revolves around them!...
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many DemonRats does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q. How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb. A. None
Question!! How many #Ulstermen does it take to change a lightbulb @UlsterRugby @JP_Petrie ? Answer! Just the two!! #SUFTUM #Hardyboys
How many small press people does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, but there has to be a gag in there about Arts Council funding.
How many economists does it take to change a lightbulb? 10.1 to turn the lightbulb, and 9 more to hold the rest of the factors constant. Hence "the rules"
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? One... or two. One.... or two.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb.......
Maybe it's like that old psychologist joke of how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it has to want to change. People's opinions/views aren't likely to change much unless they are open to begin with.
How many Dans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many FIntech entrepreneurs does it take to change a lightbulb? Three One to change the lightbulb, one to raise the funding to change the lightbulb, and one to write the API that makes it compatible with the legacy energy system #fintech @pitdesi @AriannaSimpson
How many Game of Thrones seasons does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes https://ift.tt/2GYRltM
How many libertarians does it take to change a lightbulb? They sit in the dark bitching about how someone should do something about it, waiting until the market conditions are right to make a profit on it.
Test joke, please rate for suitability: How many autistic people does it take to change a lightbulb? The same number as non-autistic people except they are more likely to have the correct lightbulb to hand when they do it.
How many Jeopardy champions/ Yale graduates does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one if he has the right tools.
How many autistics does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadjoke #joke #funny #icanhazdadjoke
"How many Leafs does it take to change a lightbulb"* *I've no idea because I can't write jokes
How many Game of Thrones seasons does it take to change a lightbulb? : Eight, if you want to screw it completely.
So: how many historians DOES it take to change a lightbulb?
How many senate republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? No need for a new bulb, apparently the sun shines out of Trump’s arse. (Yes I just made that joke up to distract me from my rage)
Jane finally discovered the answer to that age-old question, “How many men does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many Jeopardy champions does it take to change a lightbulb...
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many FIntech entrepreneurs does it take to change a lightbulb? Three One to change the lightbulb, one to raise the funding to change the lightbulb, and one to write the API that makes it compatible with the legacy energy system Hit me with your best #FinTech joke ~BK
How many Democratic nominees does it take to change a lightbulb on a debate stage? Zero, one less bulb makes the same difference as one less candidate.
FunnelRadioLive: How Many SDRs Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? Tune in here. https://bit.ly/2vbCzwP #SDR #marketdominance ConnectAndSell chris8649 #podcast
How Many SDRs Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? Tune in here. https://bit.ly/2vbCzwP #SDR #marketdominance @ConnectAndSell @chris8649
How many enviromentalists does it take to change a lightbulb? "HOW DARE YOU"
Hey #writercommunity How many Thriller writers does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 - 1 to screw it in almost all the way and another to give it a surprising twist at the end!! Let’s have more writer jokes please. #jokes
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many mothers in law does it take to change a lightbulb? "It's okay. I'll just sit here. In the dark. On my own."
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? None. The pianist can do it with his left hand
It reminds me of the dark joke about Austria in the Second World War. “How many Austrians does it take to change a lightbulb?” “I don’t know, I wasn’t there, I can’t remember.”
- #GamerMeme courtesy of http://REVMC.NET! - Q: How many #silvers does it take to change a #lightbulb? A: None, they can't even climb the #ladder! #GAMING #NOOBS #NEWBS #OVER9000 #GAMERS #GamersRock #FUNNY #awesome #gamer #gaming #lol #nerd #gfuel #game #meme #dank
@Jack_Septic_Eye How many Irishmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
"Q: How many politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Politicians only promise change"
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and the other to hold the bed. I mean the mother. I mean the LADDER.
How many shitty property managers does it take to change a lightbulb? I'm still waiting on the punchline.
Q: how many Iowa Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? A: we may never really know…
How many folk singers does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the lightbulb and three to sing about how good the old one was.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question. A drummer knows only how to change tempo every 2 beats.
Heres a joke a guy told me: How many Democratic candidates does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they're too busy lying!
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? WHO, IN THEIR RIGHT MIND, RELIES ON A DOWNLOADED APP TO THEIR CELLPHONE FOR REPORTING PRIMARY RESULTS!!!!!!! DEMS SHOULD WORRY MORE ABOUT THEMSELVES THAN THEY DO RUSSIAN HACKING...WHAT A DISGRACE!
How many Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one to change the bulb, and a Russian to turn the electricity off while he does it. *wink*
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
I also like how even at this time they can still find 3-4 guys to go around someone's house over this. How many Chinese policemen does it take to change a lightbulb I wonder?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Iowa #Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb???
Reminds me of a joke. How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. Germans are efficient and don’t prefer humor.
Q: How many Republican Senators does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. Trump tells them the lightbulb is perfect and they just sit there in the dark.
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fore
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb Just juan #bot #jokes #fun
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Gwede Mantashes does it take to change a lightbulb? If you think two broken lightbulbs are better than one, only one.
How many paladins does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and one to "Uphold the Light."  #fantasy #D&D #pathfinder
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many brexiteers does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, but they'll take three and a half years to unscrew the old one, after which they'll proclaim the job done and spend the next five-ten years complaining that they're in the dark, whilst everyone else hates them.
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? All jokes aside, our engineers make this company and they have fun whilst doing so! Couldn’t wish for a better team -Safeguard http://Safeguard.uk.com 0161 626… https://instagram.com/p/B8GrOrHF0I-/?igshid=2ox3lte651ck…
Now you’ve opened yourself up to the old how many people does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
"How many third partyers does it take to change a lightbulb?" "We'll never know."
"How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb?" "They never change anything, they just cry over the broken bulb."
How many LEFTIST does it take to change a lightbulb? None- They'd rather sit in the dark and blame it on BJP and Modi. #Modi #BJP #AmitShah @narendramodi @BJP4India @AmitShah @sambitswaraj @SudhanshuTrived @gauravbh @GVLNRAO
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many monkeys does it take to change a lightbulb
FTFY @ErikNook: How many research psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Many, but if you want a job, you should fix something no one else is, or at least call the light bulb by another name
How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but the lightbulb has to *want* to change.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
Heard a funny joke today - “How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?” - “None. Trump tells them he fixed it and they all just sit in the dark applauding in agreement.”
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? The correct term is ‘replace’.
#psychiatry Have you considered it? How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the lightbulb has to want to change.
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many Super Saiyans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Find out next time, on Dragon Ball Z!
Q: how many boring people does it take to change a lightbulb? A: just one
Q: How many social workers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they form a support group called Coping With Darkness instead.
How many sexists does it take to change a lightbulb?? Just one - as long as it's a bloke....
Q. How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. No.
Prolog was my first experience of that and also the source of this joke: Q. How many #Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? A. No
Q: How many Marxists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The inherent contradictions in the lightbulb will inevitably lead to change.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many emos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
@MetroTransitMN Stairway in the Fridley NS tunnel. Light has been out for MONTHS. Reported MANY times. Guess it will be changed when someone falls. How many MT employees does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dailydadjoke #dadjoke
How many physicists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many PETA members does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. PETA can't change anything.
Maybe the GOP needs to change the bulb. BTW, how many republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many cheerleaders does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many IT techs does it take to change a lightbulb? https://itsupporttales.com/?p=4905
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many bimbos does it take to change a lightbulb?
@AmyiCzyk Q: how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: one. But the light bulb has to really want to change. Happy Friday.
How many cheerleaders does it take to change a lightbulb??
How many cheerleaders does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many australians does it take to change a lightbulb
How many Aussies does it take to change a lightbulb? Unclear so far at @AusOpen but would be good to find out soon.
How many #AusOpen officials does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many engineers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many brexiters does it take to change a lightbulb? Whoa whoa whoa I never said there was a lightbulb.
How many Altar Boys does it take to change a lightbulb? None For in the dark they can't see our faces What's sad is that after reading that you're saying to yourself that was a bad joke What's sadder is that it's not a joke but probably happening and it's definitely not funny
How many cheerleaders does it take to change a lightbulb #EllensMemeChallenge
How many Ben Desprats does it take to change a lightbulb? I had to think about this objectively, it's 3. 1 to hold the lightbulb, 2 to rotate the chair.
Like the old gag - How many chiropodists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but it takes 15 visits !
I met Corbyn today. I told him, "Do you know my dads studied you for years. " He replied, "Oh is he a fan of mine," I said "No, he's a gynecologist How many remoaners does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they would rather hold a vote to leave the same broken one in place.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None because they just do not know how to do nothing but tell bullshit lies.
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many Arrows does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many adventurers does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them. Never split the party!
How many Latke's does it take to change a lightbulb? () The kids would call this "lit" af. @ West Bronx, Bronx, New York https://instagram.com/p/B78Z9zxJb0a/?igshid=1gl6qrnqcbcnx…
Shakespeare How many Angry Apes does it take to change a lightbulb?
the one on the right gives new meaning to the old joke, ‘how many _______ does it take to change a lightbulb ‘
Q: How many Chuck Norrises does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. When the lightbulbs see Chuck Norris coming, they change themselves. #chucknorrisfact
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
And to keep the playing field fair. How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? None, as a keyboardist can just use their left hand
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian #dadJoke #RandomJokesIO
How many prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? No.
@BumbleCricket how many Ramones does it take to change a lightbulb? ONETWOTHREEFOUR!!!
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump will lie and say he did it while they sit in the dark and applaud.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
how many small children does it take to change a lightbulb
How many American voters does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, a third of them WANT to change it, a third of them DON’T want to change it, and a third of them don’t believe that the room is dark.
Joke of the Day: How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: 14 1 to hold the bulb while the other 13 spin em around while complaining about it being too white.
@NiallOfficial how many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? FORE!
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Two recently- 1) To-do lists strike back 2) How many bugs does it take to change a Lightbulb?
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump just says it’s fixed and Mitch McConnell sits in the dark applauding.
@TiffyTrus Good Evening. #QuestionQuest Q: How many BBC Radio Cornwall presenters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 5. 1 to call Jamie and 4 to stand around commenting on how he'll do it when he gets there.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to exclaim that the light-bulb has violated the socket, and the other to secretly wish that she was the socket.
How many of them does it take to change a lightbulb lmaoooooo
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Riggi's does it take to change a lightbulb? One apparently, baucause I did just that.
How many Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? None - they still use gaslighting.
Q. How many Therapists does it take to change a Lightbulb? A. Just one. But the Bulb must really want to change!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They wouldn't do it. It's a hardware problem.
How many Palestinians does it take to change a lightbulb? Apparently it takes at least 5 to light a piece of paper on fire.
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
How many Asana’s, Slack DMs and Trellos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many SJWs does it take to change a lightbulb? Not one. They all sit in the corner in the dark and stare at it going REEEE till it turns back on.
Lol How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one but the lightbulb has to wont to change.
How many Freud scholars does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the lightbulb and one to hold the penis - LADDER!!
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? It’s a really obscure number. You’ve probably never heard of it.
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? None! They would rather stay in darkness and blame it on Trump.
Attempting to the answer the question “how many ⁦@OK_PSRC⁩ employees does it take to change a lightbulb?”
The Trump "defense" team reminded me of the old joke, How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? 5. One to screw it in and 4 to turn the ladder. Dignity? Credibility? @VABarAssn @DC_Bar @NYCBarAssn @NYSBA, where are you? #ImpeachmentTrial
Q How many @RichardDawkins does it take to change a lightbulb? A The premise of your question is flawed and doesn't take into account the slow incremental steps that move towards a new lightbulb using a process based on selecting the optimal number of Richard Dawkins.
how many waddle dees does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many software developers does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but they have to reinvent the lightbulb first.
Q: “How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?” A: “That’s NOT funny!”
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many therapist does it take to change a lightbulb? One but the lightbulb has to want to change!
How many Morgan’s does it take to change a lightbulb?
Since iOS 13, accuracy of autocorrect & dictation seem to have plummeted. It’s almost as bad as the old joke about how bad Apple Newtons were: “How many Newton users does it take to change a lightbulb? Foux! There to eat lemons, axe gravy soup!” Is anyone else experiencing this?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan @AllezJuan
Define weird. Define trolls. When is a bridge not a bridge? How many billy goats gruff does it take to change a lightbulb? How many billy goats gruff does it really take to change a lightbulb? What sound does a billy goat gruff make? Think ablaut reduplication. #WillThisDo
How many pedants does it take to change a lightbulb? When you say “change” do you actually mean “replace”?
How many Mars Bars does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many caretakers does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, one, obviously.
How many paladins does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and one to "Uphold the Light."  #fantasy #D&D #pathfinder
How many remoaners does it take to change a lightbulb?
It's like the joke about how many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb. They have to want to change.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? THAT’S NOT FUNNY!!!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Alberta MPs (34) & senators (6) does it take to change a lightbulb once Alberta declares independence? The answer? None, because common sense Albertans do it themselves and don’t trust any one of them can actually do what’s needed after 115 years of changing nothing.
How many Dimms does it take to change a lightbulb? IDK ... Still waiting to see — The majority of Dimms in The People’s House have wasted 3 years so far ... and all their lightbulbs are still out.
tonight on how many college students does it take to change a lightbulb....
How many lesbians does it take to change a lightbulb? One, just one bc I’m very capable
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer: Lightbulb? What lightbulb?
A joke... Ok. I got one. How many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? Give up? One, "but the lightbulb has to WANT to change."
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They use gaslighting.
Q: How many time travellers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: You fool, Marty! If we change anything, we could destroy the future!
How many Scottish Labour MPs does it take to change a lightbulb? All of them
In today’s sermon, my tumbleweed joke fail: How many Anglicans does it take to change a lightbulb? 5, on a lightbulb committee. How many folk singers to change a lightbulb? 3, to sing how good the old one was. How many lightbulb moments does Jesus need to change us? #Epiphany3
How many Uber drivers does it take to change a lightbulb? 2 one to unscrew the bulb and the other the figure out the surge pricing for the bulb.
BTW: Q. How many third party candidates does it take to change a lightbulb? A. We will never know.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many rude kids does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Just Juan
How many millennials does it take to change a lightbulb? Not sure because they are all on Twitter wondering why they should have to change it in the first place. #allingoodfun
How many boomers does it take to change a lightbulb? We don’t know; they just stand around talking about how much better the old lightbulb was
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many books does it take to change a lightbulb? Ten books. What does a book worm do? It crawls.
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
How many transwomen does it take to change a lightbulb? One to hold the ladder, one to change the bulb and one to accuse it of being transphobic.
“How many Garden District residents does it take to change a lightbulb?” “Two. One to supervise the person actually changing the lightbulb and another to mix the drinks.” A Dale Edmonds gem.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb?....
mi : how many yunens does it take to change a lightbulb? ilham : just one. the real question is, how many ladders does she need? @14bubbles5 : [ offended noises ]
How many senior BBC journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? "A Westminster source tells me Jeremy Corbyn is responsible for the discontinued lightbulb. He should apologise."
How many princess does it take to change a lightbulb —- excuse me Princess don’t change lightbulbs
How many Ogrons does it take to change a lightbulb?
I can't be certain, but... Q: How many gamers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One, but only if that role hasn't been taken.
How many Akons does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know it’s too dark to see
how many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb ?
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many Bernies does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question!! Bernie doesn't actually change anything. Not in his several decades as a legislator. He just fucken talks about it at rallies and admonishes MFs who don't buy in. Bulbs are rigged!!
how many black women does it take to change a lightbulb??? currently i’m on 64,000
How many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb?!?!?! russell.malone @nirfelder #kevineubanks @JacquesLesure #guitarmafia #guitarporn #jazzfusion #electricguitar #guitarsdaily #music #jazzmusicians… https://instagram.com/p/B7uIHFSgCFO/?igshid=l67h2g7tt4fq…
Q: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in a Facebook group? • 1 to change the light bulb and to post that the light bulb has been changed. • 14 to share similar experiences of changing light... https://facebook.com/100001028182495/posts/2904997002877877/…
Incredible, you're truly ready to put your body on the line. To help with prep, I found this climate joke site with some true gems http://die-klimaschutz-baustelle.de/lightbulb_climatejokes.html… "How many climate skeptics does it take to change a lightbulb? None. It's too early to say if the lightbulb needs changing."
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
The past, the present and the future walked into a bar. It was tense. Have you ever tried to eat a clock? It's very time consuming. How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A fish. Why did the cow jump over the moon? Because the steaks were too high.
How many anti-climaxes does it take to change a lightbulb? One.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Don't beat yourself up about it! Tomorrow is another day. Honey I have a very crap joke just for you. How many naked women does it take to change a lightbulb? Only 1, but I don't care, so bring as many naked women as you want xx
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many Jews does it take to change a lightbulb?Who needs lightbulbs when you have eight candles?
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb?... One, two... a-one, two, three, four.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many photographers does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Hokie undergrads does it take to change a lightbulb?
And how many guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb? 100. One to change it and 99 to claim they could have done it as well with that equipment.
Thank you my lovely. x How many Cummings does it take to change a lightbulb? We’ll never know. Dom works in the shadows.
@guerillacricket How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? One, two... a-one, two, three, four.
It's #BellyLaughDay #RHCPJokes How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but it takes a long time, and it has to really want to change #MentalHealth #TalkTherapy #FridayFeelings #MentalHealthJokes #Counselling #Psychotherapy #Psychology
How many breakfast telly presenters does it take to change a lightbulb? Find out this, & more, after the news, travel & weather where you are
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Who needs a lightbulb when you've got a glass ceiling?
How many people from Grangemouth does it take to change a lightbulb?
Gotta get lite for second. How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? Let’s ask them. #furrybabies
How many mastering engineers does it take to change a lightbulb and then post on social media about it? https://instagram.com/p/B7rDHtzpKk6/?igshid=d244h6r15ap1…
“How many people does it take to change a lightbulb?” Student learning environments play an integral role in student success. Walkthroughs, grounds and facilities assessment continue as @MPSAL prepares @CogniaOrg review in February. @egmackey #mpsmovingforward
Tim: How many Damians does it take to change a lightbulb? Jason: Just one. The real question is: How many ladders does he need? Damian: [offended noises]
How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb cba more than me and holly apparently
"How many Saracens players does it take to change a lightbulb? None, but 5 get paid £10 grand for doing it"
Q: How many Geminis does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Two. Plus a portable phone an Internet link and a copy of the "Bluffer's Guide to Changing Lightbulbs." #bot #jokes #fun
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end..
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end..
How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb ... ah none - cos they are fucking useless and have to ask someone with a clue how to do normal everyday shit for them
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
por alguna razón, solo pensé "how many kpop fans does it take to change a lightbulb?" and i need sleep
#VALUE!
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJokes #RandomJokesIO
Based on today's training: How many #GDPR Practitioners does it take to change a lightbulb? I'm afraid that's exempt under Data Protection, you'll have to submit a Freedom of Information request instead!
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Variation I like to use based on a version about software developers. Q: How many IT staff does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Why would you want to do that?
Q: How many Leos does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None: Leos are so enthusiastic they carry their own light.
It's not for Psychology per se but just for fun as I use it in my class to break the ice on the first day (today!).. "How many social workers does it take to change a lightbulb?"... "Only one but it has to want to change".
How many Alzheimer"s patients does it take to change a lightbulb?To get to the other side.
How many dead bodies does it take to change a lightbulb? I'm asking. Because apparently it's not 6. My basement is still dark.
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? More.
There's something there. Not sure what, but something is there all right. Now we just have to figure out what it is. While we wait: How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb?
Reading commentary on @jessphillips decision to stand down as labour leader candidate and reminded of the joke ‘How many Momentum members does it take to change a lightbulb? A: it’s the lightbulb that needs to change #LabourLeadership
Google it... normally you’ll find the answer. How many actors does it take to change a lightbulb? repeat, #GoogleIt
I FEEL LIKE TELLING MY ONLY JOKE AGAIN. THEN AS A TREAT I STOLE SOMETHING ACTUALLY FUNNY FROM MOLLY. HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I DON'T KNOW EITHER, BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT!
How many Filipinos does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Republican Senators does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they can’t agree which kind is better, LED, CFL or Incandescent & there’s Mitch, who wants candles only. So they sit in the dark bickering back & forth while the executive burns the Constitution.
How many anticlimaxes does it take to change a lightbulb? About 4...
Q) How many brony hatas does it take to change a lightbulb? A) None! Cause hatas hate change!
How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb?
@VeoliaUK @SuttonCouncil @suttonguardian Q- How many Veolia employees does it take to change a lightbulb? A - I don't know but they haven't emptied my garden waste in over three months.
Little twist on an old joke @GOP How many Republican Senators does it take to change a lightbulb? None, tRump will tell them it is fixed. They will applaud his resourcefulness as they stand in a dark room
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
‘How many LB’s does it take to change a lightbulb??? None, but they like to assist!!.....’ Badum tish!!
How many Grammar Nazis does it take to change a lightbulb? Too
How many Greta Thunbergs does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Light bulbs are evil...use a candle! Better still go to bed and wait for the sun to come up!
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
How many super saiyans does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it takes three episodes to charge.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many Brexit MEPs does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many philosophers does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, that's a good question. #bot #jokes #fun
How many Freudians does it take to change a lightbulb? 2, one to change the bulb and the other to hold the father, lover.... Ladder I meant ladder.
How many paladins does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and one to "Uphold the Light."  #fantasy #D&D #pathfinder
How many Americans in Italy does it take to change a lightbulb you ask? Only one, but it takes at least two trips to the hardware store and being told, no, the lightbulbs aren't wrong, you're just an idiot* who doesn't know how to install them.
How many trans ppl does it take to change a lightbulb just 1 but people will always ask you if your lightbulb had you know the change
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? I don’t know, I’m still in the dark and they’re too busy infighting to accomplish anything.
How many RobotMaths does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many collective years of game design does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many segregationists does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, wait, they don't change. Ever.
How many stand up comedians does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They can't afford it. (You are an exception though, you can pay someone else to change it for you.)
Dude, lemme give you a hand here, since the girl in the pic can’t. It was a joke, kinda like: How many idiots does it take to change a lightbulb? 3...Lafendad to hold the lightbulb and 2 to turn the chair. See!?!? Joke! But I just made it personal. SHE didn’t! Step off!
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None. Trump insists it's already fixed while his supporters sit in the dark and applaud
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. We're efficient but not very funny
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes! For more jokes:
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? #SundayThoughts #joke #jokes
How many white supremacists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one. All those Heil Hitler salutes train the perfect arm movement. It wld be nice if someone actually funny took up these white supremacist jokes. Few people are more in need of being made to look ridiculous.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
Tom Brokaw on election night 1988: "how many pollsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, plus or minus four."
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
"How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? None, if you engineer it properly." "Thank you. I will be here all the week."
— How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because they can't change a thing. Tis is just a joke guys pls dont kill me… https://curiouscat.me/Muhd_Raphael/post/1046614342?t=1579365433…
Leave comedy to the professionals. "How many political science professors does it take to change a lightbulb." "OMG! TOO MUCH MATH!"
q: how many gammons does it take to change a lightbulb? a: none no-one likes to be called a gammon
Q: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb on the Muncy Watch Community Facebook group? A: One to change the light bulb and to post that the light bulb has been changed. 14 to share similar... https://facebook.com/muncyneighborhoodwatch/posts/2716772171883662…
Q: How many corrupt politicians does it take to change a lightbulb ? A: Nobody knows, they'd rather keep us in the dark
Q: How many MRAs does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, they just declare sitting in darkness as Going Your Own Way™ who needs light anyway (Thank you, I'm trapped forever on this hellsite, tip your servers)
This is my all time favourite How many Momentum members does it take to change a lightbulb? Never mind the lightbulb, comrade, the Trots have disconnected the electricity.
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb??? They can’t do it cause it’s a hardware problem.
How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one; he just holds the lightbulb and waits for the world to revolve around him.
THIS IS MY ONE AND ONLY JOKE I EVER CAME UP WITH. IF YOU HAVEN'T READ IT SIX TIMES (I'M SOMEWHAT PROUD OF IT) YOU ARE WELCOME TO IT. HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I DON'T KNOW EITHER, BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT! CHORTLE! IN THE WHITE HOUSE
How many psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one... but the lightbulb has to really want to change.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? . . . . . Trick question, they are incapable of changing the lightbulb, cause they're busy beating the room for being dark.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
how many maga hatters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many trekkers does it take to change a lightbulb? 26. One to change the bulb and 25 to complain about how much better the old one was.
Yo mama is so mean, her standard deviation is zero! How many machine learning scientists does it take to change a lightbulb? 1, but they need a million bulbs to test it on.
How many Glenn does it take to change a lightbulb?! Friday January 17th 2020 7 p.m.
"How many moms does it take to change a lightbulb?" my mom: None if their daughters married engineers AND visited more often
"How many moms does it take to change a lightbulb?" my mom: "None. That's alright. I'll just sit here in the dark."
How many Dems does it take to change a lightbulb? Hmmmm unknown first they have to debate what king of light, enviromental impact, then lie about who's at fault
How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, because those energy-saving lightbulbs are five times as expensive and they make Trump look orange.
How many pilots does it take to change a lightbulb? 1. The pilot holds the light bulb and the room revolves around him.
Ignorance is bliss. As observed by the mum in the show. It's an old joke but it's true: How many meat-eaters does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'd rather stay in the dark.
How many Ronald Huttons does it take to change a lightbulb? Two, one to change the bulb and the other to fundamentally alter the historiography of a new religious movement!
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
#GreatBritishinventions How many men does it take to change a lightbulb? It turns out at least 2! Thomas Edison was credited with the invention in October of 1879. Yet Englishman, Joseph Swan did the very same thing in January 1879. Read about it here;
How many random wankers sliding into your DMs to call you a transphobe does it take to change a lightbulb? There’s no punchline; I really want to know.
“Enviro” lightbulbs give off the same wattage as the old obsolete bulbs and can have a life span of 10+ years. How many liberals does it take to change a lightbulb..none, every 10 yrs we get a trumpublican to do it. They have a lot of practice changing bulbs once a month. Straw
HOW MANY BEDBUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB AT DORAL? I DON'T KNOW EITHER, BUT I'M ITCHING TO FIND OUT!
How many anime girls does it take to change a lightbulb?
how many waddle dees does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many birds does it take to change a lightbulb?? Zero. Cause birds can’t change lightbulbs so that means they’re useless in this situation. Like these two
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb ?
How many feminists does it take to change a lightbulb? Trick question, feminists can't change anything.
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Thank you Melissa... How did I forget The cappy in times like these. Here you go sweetie Q: How many Capricorns does it take to change a lightbulb? A: I don't waste my time with these childish jokes.
-How many Englishmen does it take to change a lightbulb? -*grasps at pearls* CHANGE?!?!?!!!??!?!! But seriously I can’t wait to see!
How many adults does it take to change a lightbulb in a #pianolesson? Two. One student to change it, and a teacher to tell him which way to turn it even though he knows and is just being careful.
How many Teamsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Seven...you got a problem widdat?
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
Seems to me @camcitco are seriously over staffed. Six people to close one barrier! Bit like the old joke how many does it take to change a lightbulb.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart could've done it.
How many tweets does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many crazy people does it take to change a lightbulb? 0.... that lightbulb is the only friend the crazy person has. @OfficialLivePD #LivePD
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
Q: How many Hobbits does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 1 to complain that the lightbulb isn't working, 5 to hold a meeting to decide what to do about it, 20 to form an expedition to the fabled Lightbulb Mines of Mythrill, 30 to throw a going-away… http://dlvr.it/RN6z34
lucas: how many taeil does it take to change a lightbulb? johnny: just one. the real question is, how many ladders does he need? taeil: taeil: you guys better run #NCT #WayV
How many cyclists does it take to change a lightbulb, etc.
Might as well ask how many Republicans does it take to change a lightbulb? It depends on if a Democrat replaced it the last time.
How many optometrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one... or two? One... or two? Or maybe... three? One... or two?
How many cats does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Tory Ministers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they've declared darkness is the new standard.
Anyways, this reminded me a joke: Q: How many med students does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Five: One to change the bulb and four to pull the ladder out from under him.
A: how many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 66 million. 1 to change the bulb and 65,999,999 to tell you that Hillary won the popular vote.
A: how many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 66 million. 1 to change the bulb and 65,999,999 to tell you that Hillary won the popular vote.
A: how many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 66 million. 1 to change the bulb and 65,999,999 to tell you that Hillary won the popular vote.
And lightbulbs. How many #Chicago #chicagobears Fans does it take to change a lightbulb? 1, but it takes another 45 to talk about how great the 1985 lightbulb is.
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many Indian-based youths does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many chefs does it take to change a lightbulb? No, seriously. We have no idea and they've been at it for hours! #DublinCafe #Dublin #Brunch #Lunch #LovinDublin #VisitDublin
How many spelling police does it take to change a lightbulb? Too.
Q. How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb? A. One, they just stand holding the light bulb up waiting for the world to revolve around them
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Their butler changes the lightbulb
How many Northern Californians does it take to change a lightbulb? Hella. #bot #jokes #fun
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJoke #RandomJokesIO
How many academics does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Apple fans does it take to change a lightbulb? They don’t change the lightbulb, they just buy a new house.
How many New England jam bands does it take to change a lightbulb
How many medoocrities does it take to change a lightbulb?
I have a joke: How many Vietnam Vets does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many software engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They wouldn't do it. It's a hardware problem.
Christopher told me two jokes earlier. Q : How many altos does it take to change a lightbulb? A : None. They can't get that high. Q : Why can't sopranos get open the door? A : Because they can't find the key and they never know when to come in. You're welcome.
Q: How many building surveyors does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, because they couldn’t see the value.
Q. How many Stack Overflow forum members does it take to change a lightbulb? A1: You shouldn’t be changing the lightbulb in the first place. A2: This is a duplicate question.
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
This is a dark joke: "How many dead hookers does it take to change a lightbulb?" "I dunno" "Me neither, it's definitely more than 5 though because the light in my basement is still out" This is an offensive joke: "You know what rhymes with turtle? Rape, cowabunga."
How many paladins does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and one to "Uphold the Light."  #fantasy #D&D #pathfinder
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but the guitarist has to show him first.
I still remember "How many Mercury Energy directors does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Just one, but he changes it into an ornament."
How many optimists does it take to change a lightbulb? None! Their butler changes the lightbulb
Bull shit. Do your own research instead of the trash the media pump out. MP. ? Brains of a rocking horse. You are an embarrassment to a once great party. How many Scottish Labour MPs does it take to change a lightbulb. All of them. Grow up
As the old joke goes; "How many nationalists does it take to change a lightbulb?" Answer: "None they'll just sit in the dark, moan and blame the Tories"
I was thinking about how many boring people does it take to change a lightbulb? My answer? One, my boss. = = = = = Once again @1BigLiar is saying #ThingsYouShouldntSay at work.
How many floppy ears does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many alto sax players does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to change the bulb and four to contemplate how David Sanborn would have done it.
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? "Why? Oh, wow! Is it like dark, man?"
How many Vikings fans does it take to change a lightbulb? None! They’re fine living in Green Bay’s shadow.
Hey @McVit4! How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many narcissists does it take to change a lightbulb ?
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 5.....1 to hold the bulb and 4 to rotate the ladder.
@TrumpSuperElite Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 5.....1 to hold the bulb and 4 to rotate the ladder.
#SundayMorning Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 5.....1 to hold the bulb and 4 to rotate the ladder.
How many Germans does it take to change a lightbulb? One. They are very efficient and not funny.
old joke how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? only one, but the lightbulb has to *want* to change.
Velocity girl Screamadelica Higher than the sun Q: how many members of primal scream does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None. They get @andy_weatherall to do it
how many optomotrists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, or two? One... or two? Two? Or three?
Q: How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Fish.
How many millennials does it take to change a lightbulb?
HOW MANY OPTIMISTS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB
How many kollel guys does it take to change a lightbulb? It doesn't matter how many, it still won't work
How many Mesivta rebbeim does it take to change a lightbulb? 2, one to make sure the home is a seviva that can allow for change, and the other to make it want to change
How many shadchanim does it take to change a lightbulb? I don't know, haven't gotten an answer yet
How many divorced men does it take to change a lightbulb? -- Who cares? They never get the house anyway. #Joke It's a joke! Geeze
Agreed. How many psychistrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one. But, it takes a long time and the light bulb has to really want to change.
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb A: 5.....1 to hold the bulb and 4 to rotate the ladder.
Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 5.....1 to hold the bulb and 4 to rotate the ladder.
That is almost as funny as the joke: Q: How many Trump supporters does it take to change a lightbulb A: 5.....1 to hold the bulb and 4 to rotate the ladder.
All about Bulbs :) Figured you will get a kick out of this : Read this all. LOL Q: How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in a Facebook group? 1 to change the light bulb and to post that the light... https://facebook.com/AutobahnImports/posts/2922365557787628…
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
I've never been a Rush fan (understatement) but I've always understood the massive influence of Neil Peart, as evidenced by 1 of my fave band jokes: How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five. One to do it & 4 more to say how Neil Peart would have done it better.
How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Juan.
....old joke.... ..how many ..shrinks..does it take to..change..a lightbulb? ..two, but the..lightbulb..has..to really ..want..to..change.. ..clan..FOLLOWERS..AKA..LOW..VOLTAGE..VOTERS.... ....
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: one to change the lightbulb and one to tell him Neil Peart could do it better! RIP to the Legend
How many golfers does it take to change a lightbulb? FORE!!!! #BadJokeFriday @999KISW
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Five: One to screw the bulb in, and four to talk about how much better Neil Peart would have done it. #Rush #NeilPeart
How many Freudian psychiatrists does it take to change a lightbulb? Two: one to change the bulb, and the other to hold my penis. I mean my mother! I MEAN THE LADDER!!!
How many drummers does it take to change a lightbulb? Three. One to change the bulb and the other two to discuss how much better Neil Peart would have done it
How many Murdochs does it take to change a lightbulb? They were unaware the lightbulb was an issue & regret unknowingly paying to change it #bot #jokes #fun
@TurnbullMalcolm ... but how many NSA-operatives or perhaps republican-artificial-'political-victory' conspirators, does it take, to change a lightbulb? There appears to be a shortage of new ideas.
How many trombonists does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll do it too loudly.
Q: How many Dr Who fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: One million. One to change the bulb, and 999,999 to say that although the new bulb is ok, the bulbs they grew up with are much better.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Don't bother. Just leave it out--no one will notice.
How many Republican does it take to change a lightbulb? I guess nobody knows since they keep leaving US citizens in the dark.
How many hands does it take to change a lightbulb? Many. Because many hands make light work.
How many psychotherapists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many therapists does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But the lightbulb has to really want to change.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
3 blind mice walk into a pub.... But to derive humour from it would exploitative. Also.. How many amoeba does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 no 2, 4, 8, 16, wait, 32, 64, 128, stop.....
2/ It's truly similar to the old joke: "How many Vermonters does it take to change a lightbulb?" "Change it! That was my grandfather's lightbulb!" But change will happen regardless, so isn't it better to proactively steer change as much as possible than to be reactive?
How many #furrypillocks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many Systems Change Agents does it take to change a lightbulb? 1 to be too happy to notice the darkness 1 to ask if there’s ever enough light 1 to write a slide set about Edison’s 10000 40 to sit in a workshop in the dark to model the problem Sorry couldn’t help myself
How many dead hookers does it take to change a lightbulb? via /r/Jokes https://ift.tt/2uBbSSb
How many health and safety fails does it take to change a lightbulb?
Or if you want a bad joke: How many librarians does it take to change a lightbulb? 645.5
Is that a trick question? Like how many Hypocrats does it take to change a lightbulb?
@Stray_Kids #SKZUNLOCKinUSA how many of you does it take to change a lightbulb? .........한아
How many dead hookers does it take to change a lightbulb? : I don't know, but it's gotta be more than three, because my basement's still dark...
Ah, brings back that old joke from the '80s: Q: how many EDS engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: I dunno, they're still hiring...
How many cookies does it take to change a lightbulb? None. THEY’RE ALL FREAKIN BLIND
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
how many lead guitarists does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
How many roadies does it take to change a lightbulb? a) 1 b) 2 c) 1 d) 2 e) 2 f) 2
How many roadies does it take to change a lightbulb? a) 1 b) 2 c) 1 d) 2 e) 2 f) 2
How many clarinetists does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but he'll go through a whole box of bulbs before he finds just the right one.
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Four. One to change the bulb and three to pull the chair out from under her.
How many silvers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they can’t even climb the ladder.
Satire site threatened with lawsuit by Michael Sfard and Jill Jacobs for writing an article that is too close to the truth: How many anti-Zionist activists does it take to change a lightbulb? That's not funny! PreOccupied Territory, one of… http://dlvr.it/RMk7PF ElderofZiyon
How many evertonians does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They just sit in the dark and blame Lfc
I've come up with a brand new concept in comedy, one that will revolutionise the genre. #AbleBodiedPersonJokes. I'll start, but I need you guys to pitch in too. So here we go: How many able-bodied people does it take to change a lightbulb? One.
How many Producers does it take to change a lightbulb? Do we need a lightbulb?
How many French horn players does it take to change a lightbulb? Just one, but he'll spend two hours checking the bulb for alignment and leaks.
Reminds me of a musician joke a tubist told me. How many tuba players does it take to change a lightbulb? Enough to keep drinking until the room spins. I didn't say it was funny... PS, Met many good tubists bc my music advisor was a euphonium soloist in the President's Own.
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? While on a welfare check of an elderly resident, these guys noticed that her front lights were out. They ran to the store and bought a pack of bulbs to help her out. Great job guys! #DaviePolice #WeAreDavie
How many Knicks fans does it take to change a lightbulb? 100,000. 1 to change it and 99,999 to tell you how great the old light bulb used to be.
How many girls does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they’ll be too busy shagging your best mate
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJoke #RandomJokesIO
How many fiddlers does it take to change a lightbulb? - https://mailchi.mp/7f72ada46d32/how-do-you-get-the-violist-off-your-porch-12126735…
#Alexa JOTD: How many chickens does it take to change a lightbulb? I'm not sure, we'll have to wait until they got back from crossing the road. ........My God. No words. #Wednesday
#DearLeadersOfTheWorld, how many of you poop-socks does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it.
How many boomers does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they'd rather resist change with everything they have than see the world become a brighter place.
How many Gaffers does it take to change a lightbulb? Gaffers don't change lightbulbs.
"Q: How many writers does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Two. One to hold the bulb and the other to add a shocking twist."
Q: How many republican politicians does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Tax cuts for the rich!
How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows. They're still in the dark.
how many muslims does it take to change a lightbulb? ... just wondering.
How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? Six: one to change it, and the other five to fight off the lead guitarists who are hogging the light.
How many Arnold Bennett books does it take to change a lightbulb? Because I doubt I'll ever read the ones I own and I'd love to put them to good use.
Q: How many New Orleans Saints does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 54. One to change the lightbulb & 53 to lose a playoff game in overtime to the Minnesota Vikings.
Firstly: I myself run the risk of getting raped and/or murdered for being a lesbian, but I still laugh at the long-fingered lesbian joke. There’s a difference between harmless fun jokes and “how many dead strippers does it take to change a lightbulb” jokes.
How many Troubleshooters does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many opticians does it take to change a lightbulb? Is it one or two? One ... or two?
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
how many VAs does it take to change a lightbulb
How many #butchreed does it take to change a lightbulb? ... 0 ... Butch Reed Invented 10000 hr LEDs so he doesn’t have to #butchreedfacts @HeyHeyItsConrad
How many cops does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they beat the room because it’s black.
How many flight attendants does it take to change a lightbulb.... #TheBachelor
How many paladins does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to change the bulb, and one to "Uphold the Light."  #fantasy #D&D #pathfinder
How many dyslexics does it take to change a lightbulb? Steven.
How many noobs does it take to change a lightbulb? They don't find the lighbulb-spawn to begin with.
How many Bangladeshis does it take to change a lightbulb? #Bangladesh
Q - How many Athletic journalists does it take to change a lightbulb? A - No idea. But it needs 5 to pen a story about Tevez!
How many FC Köln players does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many top engineers does it take to change a lightbulb ⁦@U105radio⁩?
Happy new year and here's our back to work joke. Q. How many copywriters does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Does it have to be a lightbulb? #pushback
FunnelRadioLive: MDG: How Many SDRs Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? https://ift.tt/2QrqNqx #connectandsell #marketdominance #podcast
MDG: How Many SDRs Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? https://ift.tt/2QrqNqx #connectandsell #marketdominance
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJokes #RandomJokesIO
Mitu eestlast kulub lambipirni vahetamiseks? (How many Estonians does it take to change a lightbulb?)
How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Oh, it's a really obscure number. You've probably never heard of it. #dadJokes #randomJokes
how many trumpet players does it take to change a lightbulb? None, they just sit around and complain about the darkness until a trombone player does it for them
How many homophobes does it take to change a lightbulb? none because they‘re afraid of change, even if it means making the world a brighter place.
How many macroeconomics does it take to change a lightbulb?
Thanks for your thoughts on this. I understand what you wrote. This seems like an issue for a specialist like GD. What you offered was (no disrepect) a kind of orthodox default response. Q. How many orthodox priests does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Change??!!??.
"How many McCowns does it take to change a lightbulb"
HOW MANY BED BUGS DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE A LIGHTBULB? I DON'T KNOW EITHER, BUT I AM ITCHING TO FIND OUT.
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many new Eskom CEOs does it take to change a lightbulb? Why would he want to shed light on his insider trading activities?
I think the point is that people can’t do basic household maintenance without looking it up. “How many millennials does it take to change a lightbulb?”
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many horses does it take to change a lightbulb?
So I went to the store today and I heard these cashier dudes talking and this is what they said. Cashier 1: How many Mexicans does it take to change a lightbulb? Cashier 2: I dont know. 1: Juan
How many surrealists does it take to change a lightbulb?
Me: How many Damians does it take to change a lightbulb? Tim: Just one. The real question is, how many ladders does he need? #HeIsRightYouAreALittleDwarf @_Timbo_Drake_ @DamianWayne_1
How many Prolog programmers does it take to change a lightbulb? false.
How many South Americans does it take to change a lightbulb? A Brazilian
How many surrealist does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many god's does it take to change a lightbulb? One. But the god has to exist first. And they don't.
How many hands does it take to change a lightbulb?... Many.Because many hands make light work.
The only joke I tell (because it’s the only one I remember): how many psychologists does it take to change a lightbulb? One, but it has to want to change.
How many DBZ characters a does it take to change a lightbulb? Only one, but it takes 5 episodes.
How many Libras does it take to change a lightbulb? Zero. It never gets changed.
How many Orthodox Christians does it take to change a lightbulb?
There's a difference between a joke and constant generalised racist remarks towards people :). Saying stuff like all whites bad they cause everything bad and how many police does it take to change a lightbulb, 0 they beat the room for being black. You see what i mean?
How many Medicares for All does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many lawyers does it take to change a lightbulb? One to run the procurement of a bulb and a ladder and another to conduct a due diligence process on the aformentioned procurement. 1/
PM: Americans are BRILLIANT. I heard two swap ‘How Many [INSERT] Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb?’ jokes on the @Amtrak. Presidents: “The power’s out — who cares?” Senators: “You’ll have to ask The House.” Congressmen: “The House is on fire!” Supreme Justices: “Five.”
PM: Americans are BRILLIANT. I heard two swap ‘How Many [INSERT] Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb?’ jokes on the @Amtrak. Presidents: “Who cares? The power’s out.” Senators: “You’ll have to ask The House.” Congressmen: “The House is on fire!” The Supreme Court: “Five.”
PM: Americans are BRILLIANT. I heard two swap ‘How Many [INSERT] Does It Take To Change A Lightbulb?’ jokes on the train. Presidents: “Who cares — the power’s out.” Senators: “You’ll have to ask The House.” Congressmen: “The House is on fire!” The Supreme Court: “Five.”
How many ‘woke’ followers does it take to change a lightbulb? = Too many.....that’s Diversity economy
How many astronomers does it take to change a lightbulb: 1 +/- 800,000. (d g)
They might not even know which one to blame! How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? We don't know yet they're still in the dark!
So he didn't help? Just another lazy Democrat I guess. How many Democrats does it take to change a lightbulb? No one knows they're still in the dark!
How many sopranos does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to hold the diet cola and the other to get her accompanist to do it.
How many burning countries does it take to change a lightbulb? #Australia #ClimateEmegency
How many police officers does it take to change a lightbulb? none, they just beat the room for being black
How many trophy wives does it take to change a lightbulb???
How many dogs does it take to change a lightbulb? Border Collie: Just one. Then I'll replace any wiring that's not up to code. Rottweiler: Make me! Lab: Oh, me, me! Pleeease let me... https://media1.tenor.co/images/e12e7285f1d8b086105e016be581ca3c/tenor.gif?itemid=10156256…
Q: How many Douglas Adams Fans does it take to change a lightbulb? A: 42! #Dickology
Q: How many Buddhists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: The Eye that sees the Lightbulb is not the Lightbulb. Change your Eye so you may see. #Dickology
Q: How many Nisargadattans does it take to change a lightbulb A: There is no bulb, no light, no me, no you.....No joke. #Dickology
how many new yorkers does it take to change a lightbulb ? NONE OF YOUR FUCKING BUSINESS
Q: How many Spiritualists does it take to change a lightbulb? A: None, because they think they're already the light #Dickology
Q. How many potheads does it take to change a lightbulb? A. Who cares, dude? It was too bright anyway, now pass the bong.
How many bigots does it take to change a lightbulb? None. They’ll all resist change even if it means making the world a brighter place.
How many sound engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Two. One, two. One, two.
@njgov How many people does it take to change a lightbulb in New Jersey?
My fave: (may req. music knowledge) How many bass players does it take to change a lightbulb? One. Five. One. Five.
how many Geats does it take to change a lightbulb hwæn! (this isn't a real word or funny i just need to step away from this essay real fast)
How many NRA spokesmen does it take to change a lightbulb?
Q: How many sighties does it take to change a lightbulb? A: Zero. They can't do a fuckin thing in the dark. Heh. Remember you asked for this.
How many mystery novel writers does it take to change a lightbulb? Two. One to screw it in almost all the way, and another one to give it a surprising twist at the end.
How many Mennonites does it take to change a lightbulb?
How many kids with ADD does it take to change a lightbulb? Let's go ride bikes!
