11.43am  BST  
11:43 
Parents of children with serious illnesses are failing to bring them to hospital out of fear their youngsters will catch Covid-19, according to a leading doctor. 
Dr Sanjay Patel , a consultant in paediatric infectious diseases at Southampton children’s hospital, said fewer severely ill children were being brought to its emergency department with conditions such as appendicitis, dehydration and sepsis, PA Media reports. 
He said some parents were assuming that all illnesses were being caused by coronavirus or were not seeking healthcare due to fears over catching the virus. 
He has now helped develop  national guidance on children’s health  to enable parents to assess when they should be seeking help. 
It consists of a red, amber and green traffic light system advising parents of which symptoms require them to seek urgent medical advice and the options available to them. 
Patel said:  
These are extremely challenging and worrying times for families and I can’t stress how important it is to follow the government advice about social distancing in order to slow down the speed of Covid-19. 
However, I’m really worried there is a very real risk that some children with illnesses such as appendicitis, dehydration or even sepsis are not being brought to see healthcare professionals as quickly as they would be normally. 
He continued: “We know that the message about Covid-19 is so powerful and parents are putting most children’s illnesses down to this.  
“The other issue is that they are just too scared to bring their child to see a healthcare professional because they are worried that they might pick up Covid-19.” 
Updated
at 12.09pm BST 
Facebook 
Twitter 
11.13am  BST  
11:13 
A comment piece about the Nightingale hospital in East London published by HuffPost is being widely shared. The  article by an anonymous ITU doctor  raises concerns about whether the field hospital is fit for purpose.  
The doctor says: 
Critical care is not a specialty in which we can rapidly upskill people. I do not want to disparage those who’ve already put themselves forward; I admire their dedication to the public.  
However, the nature of critical care requires difficult decisions to be made, often backed by years of experience. It is not a matter of watching a few instructional videos or reviewing a cobbled-together management guide as many of my colleagues have been asked to do.  
These are well-meaning and helpful, but do not replace years of clinical experience. 
Facebook 
Twitter 
10.30am  BST  
10:30 
Actor  Christopher Eccleston  has said he hopes the NHS will no longer be a “political football” following the coronavirus pandemic. 
The ex-Doctor Who star said there should be “no more threats to the NHS”. 
Eccleston told TV show Lorraine:  
I’m hoping now... that the world has changed, the NHS will no longer be a political football for any of the parties and that it is protected because it is the greatest expression of Britain we have. 
It’s our nation’s conscience and now it is saving our lives and a lot of people are doing it without protective equipment. 
Asked how he was coping with the lockdown, Eccleston said that keeping healthy was helping, but added he doesn’t know how he would handle it if he was “in a tower block without a back garden”. 
He told the ITV show: “Exercise has helped me. I’ve cut down on the booze ... because I’m thinking if I can protect my immune system ... my aim is to be able to handle it without going to hospital. If I can keep myself away from the NHS, if somebody older ... needs a bed they’d get the bed.” 
Updated
at 10.45am BST 
Facebook 
Twitter 
10.09am  BST  
10:09 
Nicola Slawson 
This is  Nicola Slawson  taking over the liveblog. Thanks for joining me. 
Please do share any thoughts, insight or news tips me via any of the channels below. I might not have time to respond to all of you but I will certainly try and read them all. Thank you. 
Twitter:  @nicola_slawson  Instagram:  @nicola_slawson  Email:  nicola.slawson@theguardian.com  
Updated
at 10.20am BST 
Facebook 
Twitter 
9.56am  BST  
09:56 
Britain is at its best when faced with a crisis, the Duke of Cambridge has said, as he checked in on how small charities are coping during the coronavirus pandemic.  
William praised the community spirit that “comes rushing back” in times of adversity as he spoke to some of the first beneficiaries of National Emergencies Trust (NET) funding. 
William praised the community spirit that “comes rushing back” in times of adversity as he spoke to some of the first beneficiaries of National Emergencies Trust funding. Photograph: Kensington Palace/PA
The future king has been appointed as the trust’s first patron, and video-called members of grassroots charities to discuss the challenges they are facing and how the emergency funding is helping them to support their communities.  
Speaking to a representative of Moorlands Community Charity, he praised the public’s response to the crisis.  
I think Britain is at its best, weirdly, when we’re in a crisis. We all pull together and that community spirit and that community feel comes rushing back quicker than anything else. 
The NET said £12.5m has been distributed since the emergency appeal was launched with William’s help last month.  
In footage of the latest royal video call to be released amid the pandemic, William gave a “virtual high five” to the Moorlands charity, passing on his good wishes for the “fantastic job” its members are doing.  
The organisation, which has seen a significant rise in referrals to the service since the outbreak of Covid-19, is delivering meals to isolated households and ensuring vital products such as baby powder and nappies - which were affected by panic-buying - are provided to those most in need. 
Facebook 
Twitter 
9.51am  BST  
09:51 
Around 50m pints of beer could go to waste if pubs remain closed into the summer because of lockdown. 
Tom Stainer, chief executive of the Campaign for Real Ale (Camra), estimates the UK’s 39,000 pubs have, on average, 15 barrels in their cellar at any given time. 
Kegs usually contain either 11 or 9 gallons each, and the best before dates on pasteurised beer - including most lagers - is usually three to four months after delivery, while real ales and other unpasteurised beer can last 6-9 months.   
“It’s a very sad waste of all the work and talent that goes into producing great beer,” Stainer told the BBC. “People won’t get to drink it and all those resources have been used up for nothing.”  
Alcohol sales in supermarkets rose by 22% last month, after pubs, restaurants and bars were closed on 20 March.  
The Anchor pub in London closed and with its windows boarded up. Photograph: Vianney Le Caer/REX/Shutterstock
Updated
at 9.57am BST 
Facebook 
Twitter 
9.31am  BST  
09:31 
The son of a doctor who died after contracting coronavirus, having previously raised concerns over the lack of protective equipment, said he was “so proud” of his father for holding the government accountable.  
Dr Abdul Mabud Chowdhury’s son, Intisar, told Good Morning Britain: “He really didn’t want to convey his own fears about his own life and the lives of his co-workers to me and my sister. 
“When he wrote that letter [about the lack of PPE] he was in such an ill state, a painful state, he was unable to vocally communicate with me, or my sister or my mother. 
“But he still made sure that on behalf of his co-workers and colleagues that he would hold the government accountable for not providing enough protection for NHS frontline workers and I am so proud of him for that.” 
Intisar went on to say that Priti Patel’s statement in a press conference that she was “sorry if people feel there have been failings” over PPE, was “not a real apology”. 
“There have been failings, and I’ve seen those failings happen,” he said. “The government aren’t on the frontline, our NHS workers are, so they need to make sure that our NHS workers are properly equipped to fight this disease and protect our society in general. 
“Those NHS workers then have their own families that they need to protect - this was my father’s message the whole time and I’m just trying to convey that.” 
Good Morning Britain  
(@GMB) 
‘He really didn’t want to convey his own fears about his own life and the lives of his co-workers to me and my sister.’  We’re speaking to Intisar who is the son of Dr Abdul Mabud Chowdhury who died of the coronavirus last week after raising concerns over the lack of PPE.  _  
April 13, 2020 
Updated
at 9.43am BST 
Facebook 
Twitter 
9.10am  BST  
09:10 
More than 100 coronavirus-related fines have been issued in three days in Northern Ireland, police said.  
Officers broke up barbecues and a small number of large house parties, assistant chief constable Alan Todd said.  
Some parents were also believed to have left their children to play at friends’ houses.  
Todd told the BBC’s Good Morning Ulster programme: “We engage with people, it is only when people won’t take the encouragement we end up having to enforce the matter.”  
A total of 107 fines were imposed in three days over the Easter period.  
House parties involved some dozen or more people, although some were bigger, Todd said.  
Police stepped up their patrols at coastal beauty spots over the weekend and said the majority of people complied with restrictions designed to limit spread of the virus. 
Facebook 
Twitter 
9.09am  BST  
09:09 
The parents of a New Zealand nurse praised by the prime minister for the care she gave him have said they are “exceptionally proud” of their daughter.  
One of the nurses named by Boris Johnson in his video message yesterday as Jenny from Invercargill, on New Zealand’s South Island, has been identified as Jenny McGee.   
Kiwi nurse Jenny McGee who was one of the NHS staff members credited with saving Boris Johnson’s life. Photograph: Supplied
Speaking to Television New Zealand, her mother, Caroline McGee, said: “It makes us feel exceptionally proud obviously.  
“But she has told us these things over the years and it doesn’t matter what patient she is looking after, this is what she does.” 
She added: “I just find it incredible that she, any nurses, can do this for 12 hours, sit and watch a patient and twiddle away with all the different knobs and things they do to keep their patients alive, it’s absolutely amazing.”  
Jenny’s father, Mike McGee, also said: “I think over the years she has always told us that her job is one-on-one nursing with very critically ill people and that means she’s there all the time for 12 hours.  
“So once we’d heard that Boris Johnson had gone into intensive care it was obvious that at some stage Jenny would possibly run into him and be giving him the same level of care that she would have given anybody else the week before or next week and we’re really proud of her.”  
Johnson, who said the “NHS has saved my life, no question” after spending seven nights in St Thomas’, was discharged at the weekend.   
Facebook 
Twitter 
9.04am  BST  
09:04 
Lockdown measures to be reviewed this week 
A review of lockdown measures will take place later this week after the hospital coronavirus death toll rose above 10,000.  
Ministers have said they want to be sure the UK is past the peak of the outbreak before easing the restrictions, but 10 members of the cabinet are reportedly urging lockdown conditions to be eased amid concerns about the impact on the economy.  
The Times quoted an unnamed minister as saying it was important not to do “more damage”, and measures could be eased after another three weeks.  
Scientific advisers will meet on Tuesday ahead of the formal review of the strict physical distancing measures on Thursday, the deadline set out in law.  
The chancellor, Rishi Sunak, who warned during his budget last month that the UK risks falling into recession as a result of disruption caused by coronavirus, has injected £14bn from the coronavirus emergency response fund into the NHS and local authorities.  
Updated
at 9.14am BST 
Facebook 
Twitter 
