“D   ido seems to be failing upwards, given that Test and Trace has been a disaster.” That was the verdict of one NHS official on the impending appointment of Lady Harding, a Conservative peer, as the chair of the government’s new National Institute for  Health  Protection.   It will combine the roles of  NHS  Test and Trace, which she has run since its inception in May, and Public Health England, which Boris Johnson has decided to scrap – to heavy criticism from health experts and  NHS  bosses – because ministers blame it for errors which many believe are more rightly their own, especially those over testing and tracing potential carriers of the coronavirus.    Dr Michael Head, a senior research fellow in global health at Southampton University, is equally unimpressed. Her new role “makes about as much sense as Chris Whitty being appointed the Vodafone head of branding and corporate image”, he said. That was a reference to Harding’s lack of experience of public health and her former role as boss of mobile phone giant TalkTalk. The British Medical Association has cautioned ministers that the new body must be “completely independent of political influence”.  However, allies point to her experience in business – she has also worked for McKinsey, Sainsbury’s and Tesco, and is a non-executive director on the Court of the Bank of England – as proof that she knows how to get things done. And although she knew little about health policy beforehand, health leaders have been impressed with how quickly she learned after being appointed chair of the regulator NHS Improvement in 2017.  She appeared polished, confident and on top of her brief when appearing at the now defunct daily Downing Street pandemic media briefing after she became the head of NHS Test and Trace. However, her concern that some of her “brilliant contact tracers are not going to be very busy” until enough people had been persuaded to get tested for coronavirus now looks questionable, given that the £10bn body has so far only tracked down 78% of everyone who has tested positive and just 72% of their close contacts.  Her dedication to the Tory cause is not in doubt.  She declined a suggestion in 2017  by the then House of Commons health select committee to sit as a crossbench peer, given her role at NHS Improvement, to make it easier for her to engage with ministers. “I have no hesitation in challenging government of whatever party,” she explained.  Her husband is John Penrose, the Tory MP for Weston-super-Mare.  He is an adviser  to  the free market  thinktank 1828, as is cabinet minister Liz Truss. It has published  articles  calling for the NHS to be replaced by universal social insurance. And also – in April, as the pandemic unfolded – for  PHE to be abolished and the private sector  to be handed a key role in testing. Both have now come to pass. His wife is now benefiting from the first and, given that private firms Serco and Sitel are doing much of Test and Trace’s work, overseeing the unfolding of the second.   
