A police officer murdered his lover by strangling her in a pub car park moments after she revealed their 10-year affair by sending a text saying “I’m cheating on you” from his phone to his wife, a jury has been told.  PC Timothy Brehmer, 41, is accused of “angrily and deliberately” throttling Claire Parry, also 41, with such force that he broke a bone in her neck.    Brehmer, a constable with Dorset police, admits that he caused Parry’s death but denies murder, claiming he was “robustly” trying to get her out of his car.  Richard Smith QC, prosecuting, told Salisbury crown court that in the days before her death in May, Parry came to believe that both her own marriage to another police officer and her relationship with Brehmer were coming to an end.  The barrister said Parry had carried out research into Brehmer using a fake profile on Facebook and become convinced he had had at least two other affairs.  Smith said: “Claire Parry had recently been led to believe the defendant had indulged in other affairs with other women and he was something of a womaniser. Claire Parry was facing what she might have thought was the impending end of her marriage, and the realisation that the man she had been having an affair with for years was perhaps not the man she thought he was at all, and not a man who was likely to set up with her.”  Smith said an unsent note written two days before her death was found on Parry’s phone, addressed to Brehmer’s wife, Martha, a police detective. It said: “Dear Martha, what I am going to say is likely to come as no surprise to you. I am figuring you have always suspected but tried to ignore, there is no easy way to say it but, put simply, your husband is a man whore.  “Myself and others have fallen victim to his words and charms, his promises of being in a loveless marriage to only staying for the sake of your children. He sucked me in years ago and made me believe he and I had a future until he realised you were pregnant.  “He didn’t tell me about you at first, that he was married, and when I found out he told me he was going to leave. I have since realised I was not the only one he has weaved this story to, there are at least two more. He tells us that we are special, that he has fallen in love with us.”  Smith told the court that on 9 May this year Brehmer met Parry in a car outside the Horns Inn in West Parley, Dorset, where, after an argument, he strangled her with such force that he broke a bone in her neck.  Minutes before the incident Parry managed to send a text saying “I’m cheating on you” from Brehmer’s phone to his wife, the court heard.  Smith said Brehmer suffocated Parry in the crook of his forearm. Brehmer allegedly took a penknife to his arm and cut himself. The court was told that moments later he told a passerby: “I’m never going to see my son again, I’m going to prison for a very long time.”  Parry, a nurse practitioner from Bournemouth, was taken to Royal Bournemouth hospital but died the following day.  The prosecutor said the defendant admitted causing her death but claimed he had not intended to strangle her, and had been “simply robustly trying to get her out of the car”.  Smith added: “What the prosecution say is what the defendant did is to angrily and deliberately take Claire Parry around the neck, strangling her to death.”  At the time, Brehmer, of Hordle, Hampshire, was seconded to the National Police Air Service based at Bournemouth airport.  The trial continues.   
