Tributes have been paid to a “kind and compassionate” 15-year-old girl who died in a speedboat accident, as police continued to  call for witnesses to the tragedy  in Southampton Water.  Emily Lewis, 15, was among 12 people taken to hospital after the rigid inflatable boat collided with a buoy off the Hampshire coast on Saturday. She was pronounced dead in hospital.    In a statement issued through the police on Monday, Emily’s family said: “Our beautiful daughter passed away on Saturday. We suffered from broken bones, but the emotional pain far outweighs the physical.  “We are all in shock that our beautiful daughter and sister is no longer with us, and words just don’t seem available to express our deep sense of loss.”  The collision happened just after 10.10am on Saturday, Hampshire police said. It is understood that Emily’s father Simon, mother Nikki and 19-year-old sister Amy were also on the boat, and that both her mother and sister suffered broken arms.  Stuart Parkes, the headteacher at Brookfield school in Fareham, Hampshire, where Emily was a student, said: “Emily was a kind and compassionate young lady who cared deeply about those around her.  “Her caring showed no bounds; from volunteering to support new students through to becoming a student leader with aspirations to help shape the education of every student in our school.  “She was a creative soul who loved textiles and design and who showed great potential. She was motivated and dedicated to her studies, a positive example to all.  “Emily was a bright, conscientious student who will be sorely missed by all staff and students at Brookfield.”  Conditions in  Southampton  Water were very difficult on Saturday as strong spring tides combined with powerful winds.  Police said all the other passengers received hospital treatment – some for serious injuries. Emily’s family is being supported by specialist officers.  The Hampshire force said it was investigating the circumstances of the collision and continued to appeal for any information or footage that could help.  Detectives are keen to hear from people who were on a ferry heading to East Cowes on the Isle of Wight from Southampton at 10am or anyone else who was on the water between  Netley Abbey  and Hythe Pier at about the same time.  Anyone with information is asked to contact police on 101 quoting Operation Orange, or to submit information and visually recorded evidence via its major incident public portal.     
