The killing of George Floyd by a white police officer took place thousands of miles away in the US, but his cries that he could not breathe, in a distressing video that was  seen across the world , resonated deeply with people in the UK. 
The extent of that feeling is revealed in an exclusive Guardian analysis, which has identified 260 towns and cities that held protests in June and early July – from Monmouth in south Wales to Shetland in Scotland. 
Within days of  Floyd’s death , the protests in the UK had begun. The thousands that marched in central London under the banner of Black Lives Matter on the weekend of 29 May would be the first of several anti-racism rallies during lockdown. Many who wanted to take part, but could not travel to the capital because of the coronavirus pandemic, mobilised locally instead. 
Approximately 15,000 people marched in Manchester on 6 June, one of 160 protests that weekend. This included a gathering of 6,000 demonstrators in Cambridge and 10,000 in Bristol, where they  toppled a statue of the 17th-century slave trader Edward Colston . 
By mid-June,  more than 210,000 people  had attended demonstrations around the country, including 10,000 protesters in Brighton, 4,000 in Birmingham and 3,000 in Newcastle. 
The Black Lives Matter campaign was the largest seen in the UK since the slave abolition movement 
“The current anti-racism protests are unprecedented in my lifetime and probably the largest ever since that late 18th and early 19th centuries,” said Prof Hakim Adi, the first person of African heritage to become a professor of history in Britain.  
The Chichester-based academic described the campaign for the end of the slave trade as the biggest political movement in Britain’s history. Michael Biggs, an associate professor of sociology at the University of Oxford, agreed. 
He said: “The BLM protests are certainly the largest anti-racist demonstrations in Britain in the 21st or 20th century. They have exceeded the preceding wave of mobilisation in the late 1970s, when perhaps 80,000 people attended the  Rock Against Racism  concert in London’s Victoria Park. However, it shouldn’t be forgotten that in 1833 1.3 million Britons signed petitions to abolish slavery. Adjusting for population growth, that would be today’s equivalent of 5 million.” 
The push for abolition inspired widespread mass protests and petitions across the country. More than 500 petitions were presented to parliament in 1791-92, representing nearly all the large towns and cities. 
Adi said: “I can’t think of anything similar. Certainly in my lifetime I’ve not seen anything like this. What’s significant about it is not only are a lot of black people involved, these protests have also taken place in towns and places where there aren’t any black people or very few. We’re seeing many citizens coming out to protest.” 
The map, above, is a snapshot of the protests from June to the first weeks of July, using data the Guardian collated from local news sources. The protests are ongoing: the All Black Lives collective has vowed to protest every Sunday in central London until its demands are met. 
BLM protests table 
If you attended a UK protest that has not been included, please let us know when and where it took place  by filling in this form .  
