A vulnerable and impressionable 16-year-old girl was “cruelly and brutally” murdered by her aunt’s husband in a sexually motivated attack, a jury has been told.  The attack on Louise Smith by Shane Mays was so violent that she was left unrecognisable, the court heard.    Mays, 30, of Havant, Hampshire, allegedly tried to burn his victim’s body, which was found 13 days after she went missing on 8 May.  The jury at Winchester crown court has been told Mays has admitted manslaughter but denies murder.  James Newton-Price QC, prosecuting, said Louise, who aspired to be a veterinary nurse, began living with Mays and his wife, Chazlynn Jayne Mays, known as CJ, two weeks before she was killed.  She moved into their one-bedroomed flat after quarrelling in April with her mother, Rebecca Cooper, because she wanted to spend more time with her boyfriend.   Mays “tickled” and had “playfights” with Louise and “flirted” with her by putting his arm around her and pinning her down, the court heard.  On 8 May, the defendant allegedly led the college student to a woodland site, Havant Thicket, and murdered her.  Newton-Price said: “The prosecution submits this is a cruel and brutal murder. A determined attempt had been made to destroy her body, which was so badly burned and damaged by fire as to be unrecognisable.  “Her body has been subjected to extreme violence and violation, including repeated and heavy blows to her head. Her body had also been penetrated in a terrible way … there are grounds to believe that part of the motivation for her murder was sexual.”  Louise initially got on well with Mays and his wife, the court heard. She even messaged Chazlynn Jayne Mays, saying: “I wish you and Shane was my parents.” But the relationship quickly soured and she messaged a friend: “They are just vile.”  On the night before her death, Louise was drinking heavily and contacted a mental health hotline.  Friends of Louise, whose body was found on 21 May, said she was easily led and vulnerable to peer pressure.  Newton-Price QC said: “Louise was a vulnerable child. She took anti-depressants and occasionally self-harmed and had a social worker. She lacked self-confidence and she suffered from the anxiety issues that affect some teenagers. Louise wanted to assert her independence but we submit she was vulnerable and impressionable.”  The trial continues.      
