A man who tortured a woman before slitting her throat has been jailed for a minimum of 30 years after being convicted of murder and arson.  Brendan Rowan-Davies, 29, tied up 27-year-old Kelly-Anne Case at her home in Gosport, Hampshire, then killed her and set fire to her flat. Firefighters found Case’s naked body on her bed.    The defendant shook his head as the jury returned its verdicts at Winchester crown court while gasps and cries of “yes” could be heard from the public gallery.  Sentencing Rowan-Davies to life, the judge, Mr Justice Garnham said the murder had a “sexual sadistic motive” and added: “She was vulnerable and defenceless. She was completely at your mercy and you showed her none.”  Case’s mother, Caroline Tebb, said in a statement read to court that her daughter was “brutally and sadistically taken by a sick, vile excuse of a human being”.  She added: “This oxygen thief has not only deprived me of a daughter but he also took a mother, a sister, an aunt, cousin, granddaughter and friend. Kelly was an attractive, young, straight-talking, independent woman. She will be sadly missed by those who truly knew her.”  William Mousley QC, prosecuting, had told the jury the motive for the attack appeared to be sexual and the defendant had mutilated Case’s body after killing her.  He said the blaze was reported to the emergency services at 8.30am on 30 July last year. Firefighters found fires had been set in the kitchen and living room of the property before discovering the body in the rear bedroom.  
Kelly-Anne Case.  Photograph: Solent News _ Photo Agency/Solent News   Mousley said the victim had been “alone and vulnerable” when she was killed. He said a postmortem showed her throat had been cut several times, which would have caused catastrophic blood loss.  She had eight shallow wounds above the collarbone, a 9cm stab wound to the back of the right shoulder and another 2cm wound.  Mousley said: “These have the appearance of someone wanting to control or coerce or terrify Kelly-Anne, so perhaps she would do what she was being told.”  He said she had also sustained rib fractures that were consistent with CPR. Mousley said: “It could be that the killer did that at some point – if that was a change of heart it came too late after a savage attack.”  Mousley said the defendant had visited Case with a friend, Will Vallender, who was in a sexual relationship with her, during the previous night when they allegedly drank and took cocaine.  He said during the night Rowan-Davies told Case he had “always fancied her”. She laughed it off as a joke before later going to have sex with Vallender in her bedroom.  Mousley said the pair left at 6.25am but the defendant was seen to return to Case’s home about an hour later when he murdered her.  In the witness box, Rowan-Davies told a court he filmed her having sex with his friend but denied murdering her.  The defendant said he left Case’s home with Vallender but later returned alone because he had left his tobacco at her home.  He said that when he went inside and upstairs at the house, a person put a knife to his throat from behind and he saw Kelly dead on her bed with an injury to her throat.  Following the sentencing, senior investigating officer DI Toby Elcock said: “This was a horrific and planned attack on a young woman, and our thoughts remain with Ms Case’s children, friends and family.”   
