Police forces across England will deploy additional patrols on Saturday as pubs reopen, part of the biggest easing of Covid-19 lockdown measures to date.  Pubs, restaurants, cafes, hotels and other hospitality and entertainment services will open on Saturday for the first time since mid-March, with strict conditions in place.    Some concerns have been raised about the timing of the reopening, the levels of alcohol consumption expected and potential knock-on effects on behaviour and social distancing.  John Apter, the national chair of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said drunken behaviour could increase pressure on policing. “I know that there is a lot of frustration out there and businesses need to start making money, but public safety must be paramount and pressure on public services must be considered,” he said.  The Labour police and crime commissioner for the West Midlands, David   Jamieson, warned of “potential chaos” this weekend. He said: “I am in favour of the gradual lifting of the lockdown, based on the science, but not in the way the government have proceeded. It would have been sensible for the government to schedule the first day of pub openings for midweek, or the Monday afterwards rather than a Saturday.  “That would have allowed venues to take a more sensible approach. That is not just my view but is shared by many police and crime commissioners across the country who raised this issue with the policing minister recently.”  A number of forces told the Guardian they would send out additional patrols to deal with any trouble associated with the easing of the lockdown. Hertfordshire constabulary, Cleveland police and Lincolnshire police are among forces planning to put extra boots on the streets.  Ch Supt Richard Liversidge, Hertfordshire’s local policing commander, said: “While the vast majority of people will drink responsibly, some will drink to excess and become vulnerable to harm or indeed cause harm to others. I’d ask licensees and customers to remain vigilant and work together to maintain a safe and enjoyable environment for everyone.  “Antisocial and criminal behaviour is not acceptable and Hertfordshire constabulary is working to support the safe and crime-free reopening of pubs. Please, know your limits, plan your day and consider how you will get home safely.”  Ch Supt Ciaron Irvine, of Cleveland police, who cover Middlesbrough and Redcar, said: “Our joint operational responses will see additional officers and staff on duty, patrolling for reassurance purposes and to respond to any incidents effectively. The public has been outstanding in supporting the NHS and the last thing we want to see is our local emergency departments overwhelmed with alcohol-related injuries that will place additional pressure on a service that has worked tirelessly to keep us all safe in recent months.”  Some forces told the Guardian that owing to the restrictions still in place and the fact that many premises would not be reopening, including all nightclubs, they were not expecting significant numbers.  Northumbria police, who cover Newcastle and Sunderland, said they had tried-and-tested plans for policing the night-time economy, and the response would be proportionate. The force said it was expecting far fewer people in cities and towns than officers were used to dealing with prior to lockdown.  Lincolnshire police, who cover the towns of Lincoln and Grimsby, said they would have extra patrols on the roads at key times in response to the pubs reopening and would be seeking out anyone driving while unfit through alcohol or drugs.  Bedfordshire police plan to target patrols at pub and restaurant hotspots, focusing on the “engaging, explaining and encouraging” strategy used through the Covid-19 response.  Rachel Kearton, the National Police Chiefs’ Council (NPCC) lead for alcohol licensing and harm reduction, said: “We urge people to drink responsibly, follow the guidance set out and maintain a safe environment for everyone. The vast majority of drinkers are responsible but we know some people will drink to excess and become vulnerable to harm or indeed cause harm to others.  “The key advice is to know your limits, plan your day and consider how you will get home safely. Antisocial and criminal behaviour is not acceptable and police continue to work with the night-time economy to maximise safety and cut crime.”   
