A council’s plans to remove a statue of the founder of the Scout movement amid fears that it would be targeted by anti-racist activists were thwarted when it was surrounded by dozens of locals refusing to allow it to be taken away. 
Former scouts were among those who formed a ring around the statue of Robert Baden-Powell, a divisive figure who has been accused of support for Adolf Hitler, on the quayside in  Poole . They vowed that they would not let either council workers or activists get to the statue. 
The flags of St George and Dorset were draped over the monument, and a woman held out a sign reading: “British history matters.” 
Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council said it was not able to remove the statue on Thursday because it had misjudged the depth of the foundations, but privately council leaders admitted that they had no chance of removing it because of the crowd. 
The council said security guards would be stationed around the clock at the statue until it could be removed and insisted it would be put back as soon as it was judged that the threat against it had passed. 
The statue was installed in 2008 and faces Brownsea Island in Poole harbour, where the Scout movement began. In 2010, declassified MI5 files revealed that Baden-Powell was invited to meet Hitler after holding friendly talks about forming closer ties with the Hitler Youth organisation. He has also been accused of holding racist and homophobic views. 
Facebook   
Twitter   
Pinterest   
The Baden-Powell statue in Poole draped in flags. Photograph: Finnbarr Webster/Getty Images
Cllr Mark Howell, the council’s deputy leader, said: “Our decision to temporarily remove the statue of Lord Baden-Powell from Poole Quay was taken following the listing of the statue on a website detailing potential targets for protesters. This listing placed the much-loved statue at risk of damage or even destruction. We made the decision quickly in order to protect it. 
“We know that local people feel proud of Lord Baden-Powell’s and the Scout movement’s links with Poole, and that some people feel that we would be giving in to the protesters by temporarily removing the statue. However, we feel it is responsible to protect it for future generations to enjoy and respect. 
“We will not be removing the statue today [Thursday] as the foundations are deeper than originally envisaged and we need further discussions with contractors on the best way to remove it safely. 
“Although we cannot say when any temporary removal may take place, we will be providing 24-hour security until it is either removed or the threat diminishes. Should the statue be removed temporarily, barring unforeseen circumstances we will return it to the quay as soon as the threat level subsides.” 
After the  statue of the slave trader Edward Colston  was hauled down and dumped into the harbour in Bristol, the Baden-Powell monument was one of more than 60 that appeared on a “Topple the Racists” hit list. The listing claimed that Baden-Powell “committed atrocities against the Zulus in his military career and was a Nazi/fascist sympathiser”. 
On Wednesday, the council announced the Baden-Powell statue would be removed on Thursday and put into storage. 
The leader of the council, Vikki Slade, said at that time: “While famed for the creation of the Scouts, we also recognise that there are some aspects of Robert Baden-Powell’s life that are considered less worthy of commemoration. 
“Therefore, we are removing the statue so that we can properly involve all relevant communities and groups in discussions about its future, including whether a more educational presentation of his life in a different setting might be more appropriate.” 
She added on Twitter that the decision was taken after a “threat”, explaining: “It’s literally less than 3 metres from the sea, so is at huge risk.” 
By the time council contractors arrived on Thursday morning to move the statue, local Tory MPs had protested and thousands of people signed an online petition demanding that it be left in place. 
Sir Robert Syms MP  
(@RobertSyms) 
For the avoidance of doubt I am opposed to the permanent removal of the statue of Baden-Powell from Poole Quay. 
June 10, 2020 
Tobias Ellwood MP  
(@Tobias_Ellwood) 
BADEN-POWELL statue removal:  A wider overdue national debate has begun about who we were, who we are _ where we should go.  Few historical figures comply with 21st C values. Simply expunging past connections from sight won’t correct wrongs or help us better learn from our past.  _  
June 11, 2020 
Conor Burns  
(@ConorBurnsUK) 
The removal of the statue of Lord Baden Powell from Poole is a huge error of judgement. Very concerned by the idea it is on advice from  @dorsetpolice . Urgent clarity needed. Put it back. 
June 10, 2020 
Owen Diffey, 19, a former assistant scout leader, said he would stand guard to stop the statue being removed. He said: “I’ll be here until they try to remove it. I am disgusted at what’s going on. They are making something political of a non-political organisation that stands for nothing but equality.” 
Len Banister, 78, who became a cub aged 8 in 1949, said: “How can this happen without public consultation? So many of the adventures and joy in my life have been because of Baden-Powell and the Scouting movement. They shouldn’t take it down. I will fight them off.” 
Matthew Trott and Christopher Arthur, who are part of the Rover Scout movement aimed at adults, travelled from Cwmbran, south Wales, to express their support for the statue. 
Facebook   
Twitter   
Pinterest   
Locals show support for the Baden-Powell statue. Photograph: Finnbarr Webster/Getty Images
Trott said: “There have been vicious rumours of Baden-Powell but they are not true at all. He started the foundation I love. I have been a scout my whole life since I was six. Scouting is my whole life, so he is my hero.” 
A former girl guide, Viv Endecott, said: “He’s done more good to the world than virtually any other individual. Anyone who destroys a statue should face the full force of the law.” 
A spokesman for the Scouts said the organisation was aware that the statue was being removed. “We look forward to discussing this matter with Poole council to make an informed decision on what happens next,” he said. 
