Soaring temperatures across the UK will be followed by thunderstorms and torrential rain over coming days, forecasters have warned.  Wednesday  was the hottest day of the year so far  but the Met Office said Thursday could beat that record, with temperatures expected to climb in the Midlands and Wales.    However, thunderstorms are expected to form across the west of the UK in the afternoon, bringing heavy rain, lighting and hail.  
Quick Guide  How global heating is causing more extreme weather         Show   
Greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuels, forest destruction and other human activities are trapping heat and putting more energy into the climate system._  Hotter air means heatwaves are much more likely. For example, scientists now say the unprecedented heat and wildfires across the northern hemisphere in 2018 “ could not have occurred without human-induced climate change ”. In Australia, the scorching summer of 2016-17 in New South Wales was  made at least 50 times more likely by global heating , linking it directly to climate change.  Hotter air can also carry more water vapour, meaning more intense rain and more flooding._  Another important factor in the northern hemisphere is the impact of changes in the Arctic. The polar region is heating more rapidly, reducing the temperature difference with lower latitudes. There is  strong evidence that this is weakening the planetary waves  (including the jet stream) that normally meander over Europe, Asia and North America.  When these waves stall, weather gets fixed over regions and becomes extreme. This has been linked to past floods in Pakistan, heatwaves in Russia and drought in California._  Most of the planet’s trapped heat goes into the oceans and rising sea temperatures mean more energy for hurricanes and typhoons.  Record-breaking cyclones hit Mozambique _last year. The deluge delivered in the US by Hurricane Harvey in 2017 was made  three times more likely by climate change . Rising sea level also means storms cause more coastal damage.  Natural variability would cause some extreme weather, even without global heating, but our impacts on the climate make such extremes more likely.  Carbon Brief analysed more than 230 studies  and found 95% of heatwaves were made more likely or worse by climate change. For droughts, 65% were definitely affected by our hotter world, while the figure for floods was 57%. With the  ‘rapidly accelerating’ likelihood of 40C temperatures in UK , it is now undeniable that global heating is causing more extreme weather.    
Was this helpful?               
Thank you for your feedback.      West London is forecast to see temperatures peak between 32C and 33C, while parts of  Wales  could see the mercury rise to 34C.  Should that happen, it would be the hottest June on record in Wales, surpassing the previous peak of 33.7C on 18 June 2000.  Met Office meteorologist John Griffiths said the Midlands could see temperatures reach 32C on Thursday, while the Welsh Marches – the area along the Welsh border – could see temperatures of 34C “very locally”.  The hot weather is expected to turn from 4pm on Thursday as thunderstorms form in the south-west and south-east of England, Wales, western Scotland and Northern Ireland.  The Met Office has issued a yellow weather alert for those areas until 9am on Friday, warning of disruption due to flooding, lightning strikes, hail and wind. Between 30mm to 40mm of rain could fall in less than two hours.  The storms are expected to continue from midday on Friday through to 6am on Saturday, with another yellow warning in place for the whole of the UK.  Areas hit by the storms could experience “torrential downpours” with 30-50mm of rain falling in an hour.  On Wednesday the mercury peaked at 32.6C at London’s Heathrow airport at 2.46pm.  The hot weather saw people flock to beaches in huge numbers despite social distancing measures remaining in place.   
Bournemouth beach as temperatures rose across the UK.  Photograph: Andrew Matthews/PA   The Met Office raised its heat alert level to three, as health authorities encouraged those most vulnerable – many of whom have been shielding during lockdown – to protect themselves amid the “exceptionally hot weather forecast this week”.  Public  Health  England (PHE) said older people, those with underlying health conditions, and very young children were all more at risk from the higher temperatures.  The amber level three, which remains in place for the east and West Midlands, requires social and healthcare services to target specific actions at high-risk groups, according to the Met Office website.  People have been advised to keep cool and stay hydrated where possible.  The Met Office said UV levels were expected to remain at eight across many parts of the UK on Thursday.  
People cool off in the water and sunbathe on the riverbank at Hackney Marshes in east London.  Photograph: Tolga Akmen/AFP/Getty Images   Dr Michaela Hegglin, associate professor in atmospheric chemistry at the University of Reading’s department of meteorology, said Thursday could see some of the “highest UV levels ever recorded” in Britain.  She said: “This is because of a combination of factors. We are at the summer solstice, when the sun is almost directly overhead at one o’clock.  “UV levels this high are rare in the UK, so people with light skin should be very careful to avoid getting burnt. While UV is important for getting vitamin D and keeping us healthy, too much of it can cause skin cancer or eye cataracts.”  Emer O’Connell, consultant in public health at PHE, said it was important that people kept checking on the vulnerable, as many continued to spend more time at home due to coronavirus.  Shoppers have also been advised to be aware they could be forced to spend extra time in the sun as a result of social distancing measures. And dog owners have been urged to avoid exercising their pets during the hottest part of the day.  The public is also being reminded to take care around water throughout the summer, amid concerns people might be tempted to take a dip to cool down. Thames Valley police said on Wednesday officers had found a body, following a search for a missing man who is believed to have got into difficulty in the water at Lulle Brook in Cookham, Berkshire, on Tuesday.   
