Gale-force winds of up to 61mph have battered the south-west of England as Storm Alex moved in from France.  The storm had pushed strong winds and rain into southern England, disrupting travel and power lines in the south-west and the Isle of Wight.    The breakdown cover provider Green Flag has forecast nine breakdowns a minute on UK roads between Friday and Monday. Mark Newberry, the commercial director at Green Flag, said he expected the most callouts on Saturday, with a 10% increase in breakdowns compared with usual.  “As a result of these weather conditions, we urge drivers to remain cautious and to carry out the relevant safety checks before leaving to make their journeys,” he said.  Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks recorded unplanned outages in more than 20 areas, including Portsmouth, Southampton and towns east of Reading, according to the customer interactive map.  
People take pictures of the waves hitting the harbour wall in Folkestone, Kent.  Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PA   The company said, however, this was normal, rating the shortage as “low incidence” The cuts were concentrated to small areas, it added, with power lines generally holding up well.  Western Power Distribution also recorded incidents in south-west England, affecting Devon, Cornwall, Dorset and Somerset.  A Met Office spokeswoman, Nicola Maxey, said the highest wind speeds of 61mph hit Berry Head in Devon and the Isle of Wight on Friday morning, making power lines susceptible to damage.  Power cuts were more likely in early autumn because trees still had their leaves, she said, which meant branches were more likely to fall in high winds and disrupt cables.  Maxey said the wet and windy weather would move up from south-west England and Wales towards the north of England,  Northern Ireland  and Scotland throughout Friday afternoon – though the rain was expected to become lighter.  Amber weather warnings for the heaviest rainfall likely to cause transport disruption were in place for parts of  Wales , the West Midlands and south-west England until 6pm on Sunday.  
Large waves crash over the seawall in Brixham, Devon.  Photograph: Toby Melville/Reuters   Gale-force gusts brought by Storm Alex were expected to subside by the end of Friday, but yellow warnings for rain will remain in place for most of the UK over the weekend.  Maxey said: “A second rain front is coming to replace Storm Alex over the weekend, pushing in from the east on Saturday morning and affecting western areas later on. The rain is slowly pushing north but it will be relieved as it goes.  “On Saturday, most of the country will be affected by rain, and it’s looking heaviest in the centre, down the spine of the country from Aberdeen to Bristol.”  Autumnal temperatures of 10-15C are expected over the weekend, with the coolest temperatures expected in  Scotland .   
