A 30-year-old man who lured a vulnerable teenager to woodland where he murdered her and defiled her body has been jailed for a minimum of 25 years.  Shane Mays walked with Louise Smith, 16, to a secluded spot in Hampshire before repeatedly punching her in the face, causing fatal injuries.    Her body was subjected to what the prosecution called “extreme violence and violation” before being burned. Louise’s remains were found 13 days later following a police search.  Louise had moved in with Mays and his wife, Chazlynn Jayne Mays, Louise’s aunt, shortly before the attack after the girl quarrelled with her mother.  But arguments broke out between the three and Louise, who was training to be a veterinary nurse, complained that Mays would “flirt” with her and pin her down, and the court was shown a Snapchat video of him tickling her feet.  Sentencing Mays, from Havant, Hampshire, to life imprisonment, Mrs Justice May said she could not be certain the murder was “sexual or sadistic” but described it as “grotesque”.  
Louise Smith.  Photograph: PA   The judge said Louise was suffering from anxiety and depression and had a social worker.  She told Winchester crown court she was sentencing Mays based on the fact he had a “father-daughter” relationship with Louise. “He committed the most grotesque abuse of trust,” she said.  Hampshire county council has announced a learning review of the case. A spokesperson said: “All the evidence heard in court will be considered alongside all other relevant information from the council and other agencies by the Hampshire safeguarding children partnership in its learning review.”  Addressing Mays in a victim impact statement, Louise’s mother, Rebecca Cooper, said: “You have taken a part of my heart away which will never be replaced. You killed my daughter Louise in such a traumatic way but then to do what you did afterwards is beyond words.  “You are a monster. What gave you the right to do that? You damaged her so bad that I didn’t have a chance to say goodbye, hold her hand or even kiss her. I will never forgive you for this.”  Louise’s father, Bradley Smith, said he was “tortured by nightmares”, and added: “Louise was a beautiful daughter and I have been robbed of what was to be my time with her.”  Mays told the court he punched Louise in the face “many” times and heard her bones crack after losing his temper. He said: “I just carried on, I lost control of myself. She made a moaning noise, that’s when I stopped.”  Andrew Langdon QC, representing Mays, said the defendant had been assessed as having learning difficulties and a personality disorder.   
